Leam English With Fast And Furious
Learn English with Movies • 7 / 108


Has anybody heard from Leo or Santos?
Last time anyone saw them, they were "hitting up" the casinos in Monte Carlo

I thought tha was our last job, Brian.

And who's paying for all this equipment?

"Taxpayers?"

So, now we work for The Hulk?

That's what we're doing?

Why do I smell baby oil?

If you keep "running your piehole" you're going to smell an "ass-kicking."

All right, Hobbs, you got the best crew in the world standing right in front of you.

Give them a reason to stay.

Our target is Owe Shaw.

Former major in the S.A.S., Spec-ops soldier.

He ran the UK's Mobility Division in Kabul and Basra.

"Get us to" Letty, we'll "get you" Shaw, full
pardons all the way around.

I can't promise you that.

Yes, you can.

That's the deal.

Take it or leave it.

You get me Shaw,

and I'll get your pardons.

You heard him.

But this is different.

We're not dealing with cops, we're not dealing with drug dealers.

This is a whole different level.

We're "getting paid", right?


If we say that we have not heard from someone,
it means that we haven't talked to that person,
and probably don't know where they are.

Dom here yet?

No, 

When was the last time you heard from him?

A couple of weeks ago;
up in Ecuador somewhere.

Don't confuse this with the question,
"have you heard of someone?"

We ask this when we want to know if that
person or their name is familiar to you.

You can also do this with things, places, etc.

Have you heard of Vin Diesel? He was in most of the Fast & Furious movies.

We're going on vacation this year in Slovenia.
Have you heard of it?

You ever heard of James Edwards?

No

Well, he saved the lives of about 85 people on the subway tonight.

Then, Roman says "hitting up casinos in Monte Carlo."

This is a very informal slang way to say that you are going to a place.

I'm going to hit up the mall later.
Do you want to come?

If you hit up (someone) it means that either you are contacting them or you are asking them for something, such as money.

Hit me up later [call me].

I hit up my dad for a loan so I can travel to Europe this summer.

In this clip, there are two common reductions.

Has anybody heard from Leo or Santos?

Last time anyone saw them, they were hitting up the casinos in Monte Carlo


That is has and them.

When we use has or have to make a question, we often reduce them to

uhs or uv

or even to just a consonant:
s or v

z-anyone here fought the Grandmaster's champion?

Where's Banner?
izee he shown up yet?

v-yu you ever tried shawarma?

There's a shawarma joint about two blocks from here.

Dude 

How long ih-vyu you been standing there?

Then, when he says "Last time anyone saw them" he pronounces "them" as "em".

This is also common in native speech.

Let me see your hands. Put 'em up!

You think you're gonna have any problems with these two knuckleheads?

I can handle 'em.

A taxpayer is someone who pays taxes.

Taxes are the money that you must pay to the government according to your income,

property, goods etc. and that is used to pay for public services.

If you bring certain objects from another country, you have to pay taxes.

He's referring to Hobbs, the Rock's character, as Hulk,

which obviously is because of how big he is.

Also, the reason he remarks that all the equipment in the room is paid for by taxpayers is because it's owned by the police,

and of course, everything from police salaries to the equipment they use is paid for with tax money.

When he hears Hobbs coming from behind, Roman pokes fun at him by saying that he smells like baby oil.

The idea that such a big and manly guy would use baby oil,

a product for moisturizing a baby's skin, is ridiculous in a funny way.

Hobbs' response to that is straightforward [direct].

He will kick his ass if he keeps being funny.

This is an informal way to say that he will fight and hurt Roman.

Now, the phrase to kick someone's ass is transformed into a noun: ass-kicking.

There he is!

What?

You're not getting away this time, mister!

Unless you want that ass-kicking we talked about.


Ross.

English is flexible in allowing you to manipulate words and turn them into different parts of speech (nouns, adjectives, verbs, etc).

Hobbs uses another expression, when he says that Roman is running his piehole.

This is an alternative form of the more common "run one's mouth".

If someone runs his mouth, he's talking too much in an inappropriate way

and making someone angry.

Same old wrong with you, saying the same old stupid Shit..

Look, running your mouth? Insulting people?

Stealing Verone's shit?

Piehole just is a slang word for mouth. Depending on the context, this word can be offensive or funny.

A crew is a group of people with special skills who work together.

For example, a construction crew.

Literally, a target is an object people practice shooting at.

It's more often used with the meaning of an object, a person or a place

that people aim at when attacking.

Owen Shaw is their target, because they're looking for him and they're trying to catch him.

In an earlier Fast & Furious movie, Dom was the target of the police.

I'm a walking target.

I don't want you around when they catch up to me.

" Ride or die," remember?

Owen Shaw was a former major in the S.A.S.
Former means the opposite of current.

Barack Obama is the former president of the US.
Donald Trump is the current one.

In the army, a major is an important rank an officer can have.

Like hit, get has many meanings. In fact, there's no other verb that has as many meanings as get.

When he says "get us to Letty," he's asking Hobbs to take them to where Letty,

another character in the movie, is.

Some examples of this meaning of get are the following.

Don't follow me. Don't wait for me.

Just get her to the court.

In the following clip, it means to make someone do something.

Oh, what did you do to get her to laugh?

In this clip, get is used with the two meanings we just explained.

If I get him to you, can you get him to talk?

I'll get him to sing.

Back in the Fast & Furious scene,

Brian says "we'll get you Shaw" which is the same as "We'll give you Shaw."

I'll get you a copy.

Brian then says that he'll get Hobbs Shaw on the condition that they get their pardons.

If someone who has committed a crime is pardoned or gets a pardon,

that person is officially forgiven and their punishment is stopped.

Large numbers of political prisoners have been pardoned and released by the new president.

There are other uses of this word that are more common, like "l beg your pardon?"

which we say when we're surprised or offended by something that someone has just said.

That's the kind of reaction Loki would have when he's asked to kneel.

Beg your pardon?

Before your queen.

Pardon can also be an alternative to "excuse me"

Excuse me. Pardon me.

Coming through.

A deal is an agreement or arrangement.

for example:
They made a deal to take turns to do the dishes.

When someone establishes a condition for a deal and says take it or leave it, he or she is saying that they're not willing to negotiate the terms of the condition.

I'll give you 30 seconds.

That... What? No!

Best I can do. Take it or leave it.

As a verb, to deal with something is to take action to do something, especially to solve a problem.

We're family.

If we got a problem, we deal with it together.

To get paid is what we usually say to mean receive payment in exchange for a service.

You know what, Eddie? I love my job and I don't have to defend it to you.

Job? No, no, no. I don't think you're allowed to call it a job.

Oh, really? And what am I supposed to call it?

A hobby?

A hobby. You get paid for a job.

Says who?

Says the dictionary.

Well, who reads the dictionary. Not everybody...

Test your Knowledge

What does "to hit up a place" mean?

B. Go to a place.

What is Hobbs telling Roman he should do?
He should stop:
A. Talking.

"Pardon" is similar in meaning to...

B. Forgiven.
































































