
Aww yeah!

I'm back with another lesson with Disney movies,

this time with scenes from the classic Frozen and the new, just-released Frozen II.

This will be a great opportunity for you to get all warmed up for it

and to learn some specific vocabulary related to the weather, the seasons, and even poetry.

And if you're new here, every week we help you to understand fast-speaking natives

without getting lost, without missing the jokes,

and without subtitles!

Just like Aarsh, who says that we helped him to pass his recent English exam.

And we'll help you to reach your English learning goals too —

all you have to do is hit that Subscribe button and the bell down below

so you don't miss any of our new lessons.

Finally, I've got a very special opportunity to tell you about in just a little bit.

But, for now, let's jump into this fun and entertaining lesson with Frozen!

So, you can learn a ton by doing the things you love, like watching series like Friends,

and movies like Frozen,

but, is it enough?

Well, in my experience learning six different languages,

I have always found that native media and keeping it fun are essential parts of the process.

But, sooner or later I would always get stuck.

And this made me lack confidence because I knew I was making mistakes,

but, I didn't really know what I needed to focus on learning to correct them.

And my friends weren't correcting me, and they didn't really know either

how to explain the grammar to me.

So at some point, just music, books, and series aren't enough.

You need the guidance of a teacher.

So for me, having the guidance of a professional who has tons of experience helping people

who are having the same learning challenges is essential,

and that's why I am excited to present a great new opportunity

from our friends over at Lingoda.

They are going to help you to improve your speaking skills

and your confidence quickly, in just a matter of months.

And the great part about this promotion is that when you fully participate in all of the classes,

you can get a 100% refund!

So, I've tried Lingoda, and it is fantastic!

You get to learn with native teachers anytime you want,

and they give you all of the materials you need so you know exactly what you need to focus on.

So over the past few years, Lingoda has helped 20,000 learners just like you

to transform their lives getting opportunities to work and study abroad.

You can see some of their inspiring stories on Lingoda's website by clicking the link down below,

and definitely check out their Instagram as well.

So, what exactly is this promotion?

So, Lingoda has a motivating study challenge called the SPRINT.

And this is really fantastic because it gets you committed to learning.

As both a coach and a language learner myself,

I know that having this accountability is absolutely crucial.

Because, otherwise it's too easy to skip when you're tired or busy.

And with the SUPER SPRINT, you will be showing up every single day,

and you're going to make huge progress on your learning.

Unless you do the [regular] SPRINT, in which you do slightly less classes.

Now, when you complete all of the classes in the SUPER SPRINT, you will be getting a 100% refund.

And, if you complete the SPRINT, you'll get a 50% refund.

It's open to all levels, whether you're a beginner, an intermediate, or advanced.

And the SPRINT begins on January 7th, 2020 and ends on April 5th.

All right, so in order to participate you have to sign up BEFORE December 19th.

After paying your 49-euro non-refundable deposit fee,

which holds your spot, you will automatically be signed up for a 3-month subscription.

But don't worry — this deposit goes towards paying your first month of classes.

And remember that Lingoda will refund 100% of your tuition fee

if you complete the agreed number of classes.

There's no trick or catch here.

But, be sure to read all of the terms and conditions

as students say that this is the key to success in the SPRINT.

And, to make it even better for you, we have a special discount code for you.

Just click the link down in the description box below,

and use our code [SPRINT94] to get 10 euros off of your entry fee.

Now, if you already have good habits learning English with TV series and other native media,

then I think Lingoda's SPRINT can be a really awesome opportunity for you.

Just imagine if in 3 months, you could confidently converse with a native.

Or get an exciting new job, or move to another country.

And you could do it all for FREE by completing Lingoda's SPRINT.

Best of luck to all of you that participate in the SPRINT,

and now, let's get back to this lesson with Frozen.

Awesome! I hope that you had a lot of fun with this lesson with Frozen,

and that it'll help you a lot when you go and see Frozen 2 in theaters.

And remember that if you want to participate in that Lingoda's SPRINT

that you have to sign up BEFORE December 19th.

Just imagine by having fun learning English with series and movies here on our channel,

and by speaking English with native speakers with Lingoda,

how much your English will have improved in the next three months.

So, don't wait any longer, click the link down in the description box,

and remember to use our code [SPRINT94] at checkout to get 10 euros off your registration.

And remember to also subscribe to our channel so you don't miss any of our newest lessons.

Now, it's time to go beyond the classroom and LIVE your English!

Aww yeah!