


Miguel Gutierrez, [3/28/2024 1:24 PM]

Hey they're Happy Holidays. Today we are learning English with a classic Christmas movie Home Alone.

So this movie is all about a young boy named Kevin

whose family goes on a Christmas vacation and they accidentally leave him home alone 

first for him, it's all fun and games, as he's able to do everything that he's not able to do 

with his, parents' supervision but soon 

it turns into a bit of chaos in a scary situation, when burglars try to break into the house. 

So obviously, this movie is full of hilarious pranks, but it's 

also full of fantastic vocabulary, and you're going. to have a lot of fun 

learning with it today.
#
but  before we jump into the lesson I wanted to let you
#

I-I-I-I.
Remember that kid we saw the other day.
He lives here well, if the kid's there, the parents gotta be.

Home alone.

We only have a lot of.

Gotta be kid do you wanna come back tonight huh even with the kid here aha I don't think that's a good idea harry. Look, that house is the only reason we started working this block in the first place.
Ever since I laid eyes on that house, I wanted it. So let's take a one step in time. Okay, we'll unload the fed, get a bite to eat, we'll come back about 09:00.
This way it's dark, then kids are scared of the dark, you're afraid of the dark too more you know you.
Walk now.
To the food she, why not not not.
If the kids there, the parents gotta be. This is a great line to practice connected speech, how natives cut and link their words together These two words link.
Well, if this is a sound and this is all one word, kids there, here, the sound is pay.
Pay parents, and of course, this is an American T, got A got a.
Lastly, both occurrences of the in this utterance are unstressed, they sound like a weak syllable, the the kid the parents.
Altogether well if the kids there the parents gotta be well if the kids there the parents gotta be well, if the kids there the parents gotta be.
Gotta be kidding. You wanna come back tonight huh? Even with the kid here? Aha, I don't think that's a good idea. Harry. Look. can you notice any differences in meaning in the sentence? I don't think that's a good idea.
I think that's not a good idea, besides possibly a nuance of meaning, they communicate the same idea in English when we use the verb think or the verb believe although there are others as well,
We just have the habit of negative in the first verb. I don't think something like that's even possible.
Oh, jesus, sheldon, I don't think we can play on Sunday look.
House, the only reason we started working this block in the first place, he says, they've been working the block, a block is an urban area surrounded by four streets, we also call a block the length of one side of a block.
Especially as a measure of distance. Example, the school is three blocks away. Can you notice that the way they use the verb work here is different from how we traditionally use It.
This is a less common use of work, e.g., if you work the land, you do all the work necessary to grow crops on it. What he means here by working the block is that they're robbing the houses from that block.
I will have you know I come from simple farm folk there is permanent dirt underneath these fingernails from work in the soil really. I had no idea that re potting your orchids counted as? work in the soil.
How would you complete this sentence.
Now, most learners often confuse steel rob and other similar words. While rob and steel both mean to take something without permission, we use the word rob to refer to the place or person where the things are being taken from.
So you would rob a bank, rob a house, or rob the billionaire collocated with house, you will often also hear the word burgo example.
The house was burgled while we were sleeping, now steel focuses on the thing that was taken, example, the thief star TV. The pick pocketers stole my wallet.

Miguel Gutierrez, [3/28/2024 1:24 PM]
Somebody stole a very expensive bottle of wine from my office.
So now you know you don't rob a wallet or money, you steal them, and you don't steal a house, a bank or a person you rob them.
Can you give me an example, with Rob and Steel in the comments below? Look, that house is the only reason we started working this block in the first place. We say in the first place at the end of a sentence, to indicate what was true or what should have been done. at the beginning of the.
Situation, if you hated it so much, why did you buy it in the first place.
Worry about that? No,
We're sorry, we never should have been comparing relationships in the first place why we won.
Ever since I laid eyes on that house, I wanted it. Let's take a one step we try. Did you notice how he pronounced wanted it as wanted it.
We usually reduce or remove the tea sound when it's after an end sound here, the end takes up the place of the tea.
I wanted what those kids had then, and 40 years later, I still wanted some other times, however, we pronounce each sound clearly well see I wanted it.
To lay eyes on something or someone means to see something or someone for the first time, then he says, let's take, it, one, step at. A, time?
If you do something one step at a time, you do it slowly and carefully, doing just a little at a time, or as he says, take it one step at? A Time.
Biggest thing I've ever tried to do. Contestants, ready, physicians, just take one step at a time, don't worry about the 50 to hopefully. 75, hot? Dogs. You're. Gonna, eat.
Worry about the dog in front of you.
Fan get a bike to eat.
We'll come back about 09:00 here they explain how they will take it one step at a time. To load means to put something inside of a container.
In this case, they plan to load the van with the things they'll steal. The opposite of to load is to unload.
The next thing they'll do is get a bite to eat this is an informal way of saying eat something to have a meal. We also say, grab a bite to? Eat.
Listen what do you say we go grab a bite to eat get the car fixed later at at my apartment it's um it's um five Morton Street Apartment 14.
Um, and then, maybe, you know, after we could grab a bite to eat or whatever.
Okay, okay, i'll see this way. It's dark.
Kids are scared of the dark. You're afraid of the dark. Two more you know.
We say it's dark when it's nighttime and you can't see. The opposite is light. Example, in the winter, it doesn't get light out until after 09:00 a.m..
Thank you.
You know?
There he is. Hey, i'm calling the cops. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. He wants us to follow. I got a better idea Come on.
So, so.
To.
Why?
And we're talking about.
Thank you. Thank you,
And that's, that's that.
So,
Hi Paul. Be out smarter this time. Get over this.
Okay.
Good, but I'm gonna do to him, harry do exactly what he did to us when I burn his head with a blow torch. You can smash his face with an? Iron.
Like to slap him right in a face with a pig can maybe or shove a nail for his foot. First thing I want to do is fight off every one of these little fingers one at a time.
Oh, oh.
Thank you.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, he wants to follow, this is another audience with the same interesting, connected speech, first there's linking.
These two words sound like one wants us. There's also the emission of the H and hymn, as we've seen many times. This is. common in words such as, he, her and his. as well.
In this utterance, we're going to emphasize these syllables only he want follow, everything else is unstressed.
Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. He wants us to follow. He wants us to follow.
What's the time.
Hi you, paul.
Be out smarted this time. Get over this.
Hi is an informal greeting, like Hi, hello or Hey, hi big boy.
Charlie.
Hi? A-J pritchard here holidays are just around the corner the word pal is usually used to refer to a man come out here.

Miguel Gutierrez, [3/28/2024 1:24 PM]
Um see a balance see it. It's also equivalent to friend if you say he's my pal, e.g. or as Chandler says here.
Which means, be a friend, joy, be a pal, lift up my hand and smack her with it, we outsmart at you this time.
If you outsmart someone, you defeat someone by being more intelligent or clever. In this word, out is used as a prefix meaning more.
Well, he's so wise, why does he need fireballs? I can't he just, you know, outsmart the bad guys does outlive means live longer? I'll keep taking your medication, you'll outlive all of us.
Out run means run faster, dad. You like it out on.
I'm address here, it's him versus many people in an argument, that's why he says he's outnumbered. Hey, all right, you know why, clearly I'm outnumbered here, but could I just say one thing.
Please. Then he says, get over here This can be understood by looking at what he's doing in this clip.
We say this when we tell someone to come closer to us or join us and what we're doing how then get over here.
She might be contagious. Oh, francing, would you like.
Oh no no no, I don't wanna push this get over here. What do you think would be the opposite of this.
I'm not,
In the rest of the clip, once they catch Kevin, they say what they're going to do to him, which is the same thing he did to them in the movie.
Hey,
He burned marks head with a blow torch. He smashed Harry's face with an iron.
Thank you.
Well, that you.
He hit mar with a pink can in the face.
Don't worry.
Mom, I get them for you.
Oh,
Oh, yes.
Yes.
I can't believe in her.
I-I-I-I-I.
Remember that kid we saw the other day.
He lives here well, the kids there, the parents gotta be.
He's home alone.
Oh, no.
Gotta be kid do you wanna come back tonight huh even with the kid here aha I don't think that's a good idea harry. Look, that house is the only reason we started working this block in the first place.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Ever since I laid eyes on that house, I wanted it, so let's take a one step in time Okay.
Thank you.
We'll unload the fan, get a bite to eat. We'll come back about 09:00 this way it's dark then.
Kids are scared of the dark. You're afraid of the dark too more you know.
I'm not,
You should not, not, not to wash.
There he is. Hey, i'm calling the cops. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. He wants? Us to? Follow.
Better idea. Come on.
And I'm like you.
I'm a.
Ready?
I'm.
So I'm, i'm gonna be in the back.
And I'm not the one.
Hi Paul. Be out smarter this time.
Thank you.
I'm a.
Get over this.
Okay.
Good, what are gonna do to him Harry. Do exactly what he did to us and I burn his head with a blow torch. Go and smash his face with an iron.
Like to slap him right in a face with a paint can maybe, or shove a nail through his foot. First thing I wanna do is fight off every one of these little fingers one. at a time.
Oh, oh.
In the House.
All right, I hope you have a lot of fun today and laughed alongside this classic Christmas movie, and I hope that you'll go and watch it in English and understand a lot more of it, and if you want to be able to constantly understand natives, well, then look no further.
Check out one of the other lessons that we have for you here, and now it's time to go beyond the classroom and live your English Ah.
Baby.