If you've ever read a children's story in English,

That's your son?
No, that's my stunt double Cliff Booth.
A stunt is a dangerous and exciting action
requiring special skill

performed for artistic purposes usually on television, theaters, or cinema.

A double is a person who looks the same or very similar to someone else

In filmmaking, stunt doublesl are trained
professionals who replace actors
in performing some dangerous video sequences.

You've seen my stunts, I can kick. I can punch.

Alright, what's the matter partner?

We ask what's the matter? when we want to
know what's wrong or if there's a problem.
You think I come here to admire the view?
I'm sorry, I'm sick.

Why, what's the matter?
I don t know. I'm all run down.
I need money real bad.

What? My wife and I, we wanna go West.

A partner is a person who you work with
or do business together with.

Me and Nick are partners. We discuss all
facets of the business together.

As is the case in the movie trailer, it's also a term
by which men address one another.

partner
So good of you fo come

It's official old buddy.'
I'm a has-been.

One of the defining characteristics of the
character played by Leonardo Dicaprio
in this movie is that he's an actor who's been
successful in the past
but struggles to get roles in the present.

He's, what we would call, a has-been.

That's to say, someone who was popular
in the past, but is not so much so now.

A coach who's a has-been doesn't coach
champions.

He just makes more has-beens.

Here I am. Flat on my ass. Who do I got living next door to me?

By saying he's flat on his ass, he's saying he's
broke, or in other words, has no money.

This comes from the collocation to be flat broke.

The date couldn't have come at a
worse time. man.
I was flat broke.

I'm Sharon Tate. I play Ms. Carlson, the klutz.
If an actor plays a character, it means that they
have the role of that character in a movie,


Jennifer Anniston played Rachel Green in the series
Friends.
So you're playing Adrien, uh?
Yes
Are you one of the retarded cousins?

klutz, klutz, klutz,
A klutz is someone who is clumsy and awkward.

In other words, we can imagine Ms. Carlson
easily loses balance, is not graceful,
and does or says foolish things.

Give me a lift?

Where are you going?

To drive someone to a particular location.
Hey, if you're not busy, do you think you could give
me a lift to the airport?

Another common way to express the same thing is using the word ride.

You know what, I should head out.
Oh, really? -Yeah.
I have to give you a ride home.
Right. Yes, you do.
Yeah, 'cause you don't have a car or anything, right?
Right, I don't have a car.

Charlie is gonna dig you.

Besides the main meaning of dig that we use when we say
for example, to dig a hole in the ground,

it is also an informal alternative to like.
If you dig a person or if you dig an idea, you like them.

I dig this part of the city.

In this town, it can all change like that.

We say "like that" or "just like that" when we're
talking about something happening fast,
unexpectedly, not giving one an
opportunity to prepare.

really?
Just like that.
Just like that.

The next clip we're going to watch is a scene from the movie.
Here, Randy, is a stunt coordinator, and he isn't a
fan of Cliff, Brad Pitt's character.

Rick doesn't want to let go his long-time stunt double, so he tries to convince
Randy to keep him in the project.
He in there?
Yes, just knock.

Idon't dig him.
And I don't dig the vibe he brings on a set.

if you need him, you got him

What we see here is a very common reduction
in which we omit the H sound in the pronoun "him"
So, it sounds like ihm. The same happens with the pronouns "he" and "Her".
Later in this scene, we also see "them" be reduced to "em." uhm
All these reductions are very common in everyday speech.
In the following clip, instead of:
Take him fishing
take-lm fishing
Get him on our side
get-im on our side

Here's what you do. You take him out for some fishing or something. 
Why would I take hm fishing?
Fun. Guy fun.
Let's get him on our side. 
No look. I'm not taking him fishing.
I got him a sweater.
Okay, well, he might like that.
I've seen him get chilly. 
I'm done for the day.
You can leave him in here all night.

Then I gotta have a conversation with that wardrobe assistant and man she's a bitch.
A wardrobe is similar to a closet, where one keeps his clothes.
In the case of a movie, series, or theater, it is
where the actor changes their costumes,
and possibly rests between shooting scenes.
A wardrobe assistant would be someone who helps the actor get dressed.

The word bitch does not mean a prostitute, as many English learners mistakenly believe.
Rather, it is usually used to refer to a woman who's annoying or unpleasant.

Calling a woman bitch is offensive and very impolite.

Well, uh, Aunt Sylvia was...
...well, not a nice person.

No, she was a cruel, cranky old bitch.
And I'm sorry she died.
A, that is bullshit. And B, she is a complete bitch
Hey, that's his fiancée.
What? It's true.
It's true. You know it's true. She beats him.
Gotta is used in spoken English to represent the words 'got to when they are pronounced informally, with the meaning 'have to' or 'must'.

It's very common in American English to say, for
example, I gotta go instead of I have got to go.

You're too pricey for us, Sin.
Brother gotta get paid, right?

Honey, I gotta say, I like this haircut.

You gotta give yourself a break. See, the thing about me. I'm not as open with feelings as you.
You've gotta lower your expectations.

Look, look Randy. I'm asking you to help me out man.


You probably know what to help means, but you might wonder if there's any difference between saying help and help out.

The answer is that there isn't much of a difference.

Generally, we'd look at the use of help someone out as an alternative of help that carries a more conversational tone.

Oh, anyways. I was wondering if you could help me out with something...

Yes.
-Oh.

This ain't a Andy McLaughlin picture, you know?





Ain't, Ain't, Ain't

Ain't is a very informal and colloquial word
that's used as an alternative to the negative
forms of the verb to be (am not, is not, are not),

the verb have (have not and has not), and the
verb do (do not and does not).

It's also sometimes used to replace the past
forms of those verbs.

This word is grammatically incorrect and some
people argue that this word is used by people
with little education,

but depending on the context it can also be used
to achieve a colloquial or comedic effect.

Let's see some other examples of ain't.

This ain't gonna work, sweetie.
That look ain't gonna work on me.
I ain't cleaning that up.
This ain't a Andy McLaughlin picture, you know?


If you "cannot afford to do something", you must
not do it because it would cause serious
problems for you.

"Can't afford to do something" is different form
"can't afford something", which means that you
don't have enough money to buy something.

...was asking for money for dog food,
and I was like, "If you can't afford dog food, you shouldn't have a dog." 

And I don't dig the "vibe" he brings on a set.
"vibe" "vibe" "vibe"
A "vibe" is a feeling that you get from a particular
person, place or situation. It can be good or bad.

If you talk about someone's vibe, you're
referring to a certain energy that person
transmits.

In this case, Randy gets a bad vibe from Cliff.

Hutch, who the hell are these guys?
I don't know, but I get a good vibe from them.


A "stunt" is...
c, A look-alike

In this sentence, "dig" is a synonym for:
b. to like

"On the chance that" means...
c. on the possibility that
