... .
Learn English With The Lion King.txt

... .
*Duration of the video: 22 minutes / 5 parts = 4.4 minutes each*
- *Start of Part 1: (0 - 4)*
- *Start of Part 2: (4 - 8)*
- *Start of Part 3: (8 - 12)*
- *Start of Part 4: (12 - 16)*
- *Start of Part 5: (16 - 22)*
... .


... .
- *Start of Part 1: (0 - 4)*
Aw yeah! Let's leam English with the new Lion King movie!
So, if you're anything like me, the original Lion King was probably quite a highlight of your youth.
And that's why I thought that with this new version, it would make a perfect lesson for you guys.
We have some interviews with the entire cast, including Beyonce, and some clips from the new movie.
And every week we help learners to understand fast-speaking natives
Without Getting Lost
Without Missing the Jokes
Without Subtitles
Just like Parmida, who says that with our lessons,
she has taken her English to the next level.
-
Parmida Ahmadi
It's perfect.
I think this channel changed my level in English Thank you
-
So if you want to be able to improve your English too,
we would love to help you to do it.
you just have to hit that subscribe button and the bell down below, 
so you don't miss any of our new lessons. 

— Look closer...
he lives in you.
The Lion King was a story that people knew intimately.
— Simba!
The reason The Lion King has endured is because
the inspiration that we're getting from it is universal.
It's a story that remains true to everybody.
The songs are amazing. Just felt like everything you want from a Disney movie.
Getting to relive it in a new way is really exciting. 
— What's a motto?
Nothing! What's a motto with you?
Nice!
Boom!

The Lion King was a story that people knew intimately.
More literally speaking, being "intimate" with somebody or something

relates to having an extremely close relationship with them, or a deeper knowledge about it.

And when I spun it really, really fast it gave me ability to fly.

Everytime I threw it, it would always... come back to me.

Sounds like you had a pretty special and intimate relationship with this hammer,

and then losing it was almost comparable to losing a loved one.

That's a nice way of putting it.
 
Here, Jon Favreau, the director of the new Lion King movie,

talks about how fans feel deeply connected with the story in the original Lion King movie.

2:00 video 

The reason The Lion King has endured is because

the inspiration that we're getting from It is universal.

In this case, to endure simply means to continue to exist; to last.

People are dying, Alfred.

What would you have me do?

Endure, Master Wayne.

Take it.

Well, today I found out what Batman can't do.

He can't endure this.

The reason The Lion King has endured...

He's referring to how the original movie has continued,

or remained relevant (important) to people, even though it's been 25 years since it was released.

It's a story that remains true to everybody.

Here, again, they talk about how connected to the story the fans still feel,

by saying that it remains true to everybody.

This refers to how its message and values are still just as relevant as when it was released.

In other words, we could say that the Lion King is a classic or timeless film.

The songs are amazing. Just felt like everything you want from a Disney movie.

When he says everything you want from a Disney movie",

we can understand that he's referring to all the similar elements found in Disney animations,

such as great original music,

talented voice actors,

a fascinating story,

all while being very impressive visually.

Do you like Disney movies? What is your favorite thing about them?

Share in the comments below and see what other learners have said!

What's a motto?

Nothing! What's a motto with you?

Nice!
Boom!

A motto is a short sentence with a rule on how to behave or think,

that is used by a person or institution as to define their way of life. 

For example:
"Be prepared" is the motto of the Boy Scouts.

All my life my motto has been "aim high".

Repeat after me.

Hakuna Matata.

What?

Hakuna Matata.

It means "No worries"!

... .
- *Start of Part 2: (4 - 8)*








- *Start of Part 3: (8 - 12)*
- *Start of Part 4: (12 - 16)*
- *Start of Part 5: (16 - 22)*


What a wonderful phrase 

Ain't no passing craze

Yeah! It's our motto!

What's a motto?

Nothing!
What's a motto with you?

You know, kid...
These two words will solve all your problems.

That's right 

The joke here is that the pronunciation in the sentence "What's a motto" sounds like he's saying "What's the matter".

It's very normal, considering that with connected speech the sentence

What's the matter
becomes
whats-uh-matta
when pronounced in a natural way in English.

4:46 video































































#
is universal. In this case, to endure simply means to continue to exist, 
to last. People are dying, Alfred. What would you have me do? Endure, 

"most of the way". 

Take it. Not today I found out what Batman can't do. 
He can't endure this. The reason the Lion King has endured... 
He's referring to how the original movie has continued 
or remained relevant to people. 
