ok: to give form to the paragraph without changing any words:

Without changing the text order, grammar, and punctuation:

##

Hey Aaron here with Superior Singing Method. This is how to sing and improve your pitch.

[Music]

Okay, how to sing and improve your pitch. So, a lot of singers, I would say many, if not most singers, they have some trouble with pitch, like staying on key and actually sounding, you know, sounding like they're supposed to sound on the different notes. And if you're off-key like a handful of times in a song, or, you know, especially in the first handful of phrases, like, somebody's usually kind of writing you off. They don't want to hear all that. So, I want to teach you one good idea, one good exercise on how to improve your pitch. "The most common reason for pitch problems is actually tension." I know it seems simple and insignificant, but it's actually a pretty radical thing. So, when I do exercises in the morning, I do a lot of exercises that help loosen up my face, and my jaw, and my neck, and kind of my whole body, because tension is a really big deal. But the other type of tension is that the pull-up, the chest voice, like, you know, this is your chest voice, hey, I'm talking about chest voice down here, hey, this is my head voice up here. And so, when I sing "La," you know, when people sing up in the higher notes, a lot of times, instead of going into head voice up here, they'll try to use their chest voice and be like, you know, get those high notes still, like, in their chest voice. And that creates a lot of strain in the voice here, and it actually raises your larynx up, and that basically is squeezing all this area right here, and it's impossible to have good sound in general when you're squeezing your throat like that. But what usually happens with that strain is notes go flat, you know, like, uh, they h that's flat. Like, flat is kind of kind of go down. So, what's happening is you're overusing what are called the compression muscles inside here, and that's like the whole raised larynx thing. And if you've had any vocal training at all, you may have heard some of you be like, or, you know, it's like super simple, just relax, just relax. And vocal coaches will say, just relax, like, give me a break. What does that even mean, just relax? I would, oh, just relax, easy. What does it mean? Like, I'm fully relaxed, I'm singing, I'm singing. That doesn't make a lot of sense. But the point in there of the relax point, and that's not my whole lesson because this is just a tiny part of it, is just be conscious of what you're doing when you're singing. If you're really tensing up your neck and you're tensing up this, and you are bringing up that chest voice, hey, instead of going hey, hey up there, just notice what you're doing, and that'll go a long way. So, here's the exercise I want you to do, though. When you, well, actually, I'll get there. What helps actually lighten up that strain and that tension and all that stuff is adding a little bit of the Fingal NG sound, that sound that you may have heard me talk quite a bit about, but I want you to get there in a different way this time. This time, I want you to stick your tongue all the way out, and I want you to do an A sound, like almost like a ant, a a ant, a sound, and I want you to do it like this. I want you to do like a one, two, three, four, five, four, three, two, one first. So, basically like, ah. When your tongue is all the way out, it doesn't allow you to get all that strain and that tension in there and gets you into that Fingal kind of NG a little bit. So, that's the first one I want you to do. You can raise it up a note, and another thing you can do is I want you to go even further with it. I want you to go like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and all the way back down. So, it'd be like this.

[Music]

And what this exercise does is it decreases the use of the compression muscles in your voice, and obviously, you're never going to sing like that, but it trains you to know what it feels like when you're singing up there in your head voice. It's got less tension, and so, you know that it's possible. So, when you're singing regular notes, you'll know how to kind of position your throat and your mouth in order not to feel all that tension. And before you go, I actually, if you click the link below, I've got this great new thing that I've created. It's a quiz to help you find your number one singing killer. I found there's only a handful of singing killers, and if you could discover what yours is, it will help you actually skyrocket your singing a lot faster. So, if you click the link below, there'll be the quiz, you know, some questions will pop up, you take a quiz, just you've taken quizzes before online or Facebook or whatever. You take the quiz, and it'll actually tell you what your number one singing killer is. And not only that, it'll actually, I will send you a video that I created for that very specific singing killer and how you can fix that because I want you to have all the resources you need in order to be a great singer. So, click that link below, take that quiz today, and I'll see you next time.







##

doc v1:

ok: to give form to the paragraph without changing any words:
Aron-impruve your pitch.txt

hey Aaron here with Superior singing

method this is how to sing and improve

your pitch

[Music]

okay how to sing improve your pitch 

okay so a lot of singers I would

say many if not most singers they have

some trouble with with pitch like

staying on key and actually sounding you

know sounding like they're supposed to

sound on on the different notes and and

if you're off key like a handful of

times in a song or you know especially

in the first handful of phrases like

somebody's kind of usually kind of write

you off they don't want to they don't

want they don't want to hear all that so

I want to teach you one good good idea

one good exercise on how to improve your


pitch "the most common uh reason for

pitch problems is actually tension" I


know it's like that seems like simple

and insignificant but it's actually

pretty radical thing so I when I do

exercise in the morning I do a lot of

exercises that help loosen up my face

and my jaw and my neck and kind of my

whole body because tension is it's a

really big deal but the the other type

of tension is that the the pull up the

chest voice like uh you know this is

your chest voice hey I'm talking about

chest voice down here hey this is my

head voice up here and so um when I uh

when I sing La you know when people like

sing        up in the higher notes a lot of

times instead of going into into head

voice up here they'll try to use take

their chest voice and be

like you know like get those high high

notes still like in their chest voice

and that creates a lot of strain in the

in the voice here and it actually raises

your larynx up and that basically is

squeezing all this like area right here

and it's impossible to have good sound

in general when you're squeezing your

throat like like that but what what

usually happens with that strain is

notes go flat you know like uh

they

H that's flat like flat is kind of kind

of go down so what's happening is you're

overusing what are called the

compression muscles inside here and

that's like the whole um raised larynx

thing and you if if you've had any vocal

training at all you may have heard um

some of you be like or you know it's

like super simple just just relax just

relax and vocal even vocal coaches will

say just relax like give me a break what

does that even mean just relax like I I

would oh oh just relax easy like what

does it mean like I'm fully relaxed I'm

singing I'm singing that doesn't make a

lot of sense but but there there the

point in there of the relax point and

that's not my whole lesson cuz this is

just a tiny part of it is just be

conscious of what you're doing when

you're singing if you're really tensing

up your neck and you're tensing up this

and you know you are bringing up that

that chest voice hey instead of going

hey hey up there just notice what you're

doing and that that that'll go a long

way so um here's the exercise I want you

to do though when you uh well actually

I'll get there what what helps actually

lighten up the that strain and that

tension and all that stuff is adding a

little bit of the Fingal NG sound that

sound that you you may have heard me I

talk quite a bit about that but I'm

going to I I want you to get there in a

different way this time this time I want

you to stick your tongue all the way out

and I want you to do an a sound like

almost like a ant a a ant a sound and I

want you to do it like this I want you

to do like a one two 3 4 5 4 3 2 1 first

so basically

like ah

when your tongue is all the way out it

doesn't you it doesn't allow you to get

all that strain and that tension in

there and gets you into that Fingal kind

of NG a little bit so I want that's the

first one I want you to

do you can raise it up a

note and another thing you can do is I

want you to go even further with it I

want you to go like 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 n

and all the way back down so it be like

this and

[Music]

and what this does this exercise does is

it decreases the use of the compression

muscles in your voice and and what and

obviously you're never going to sing

like that but it trains you to know what

it feels like that when you're singing

up there in your head voice it's got

less tension and so you know that it's

possible so when you're singing regular

notes you'll know how to kind of

position your throat and your mouth in

order not to feel all that tension and

before you go I actually if you click

the link below I've got this great new

thing that I've created it's a quiz to

help you find your number one singing

killer I found there's only a handful of

singing killers and if you could

discover what yours is it will help you

actually Skyrocket your singing a lot

faster so if you click the link below

there'll be the quiz you know some

questions will pop up you take a quiz

just you've taken quizzes before online

or Facebook or whatever um you take the

quiz and it'll actually tell you what

your number one singing killer is and

not only that it'll actually I will send

you a video that I created for that very

specific singing killer and how you can

fix that because I want you to have all

the resour sources you need in order to

be a great singer so click that link

below take that quiz today and I'll see

you next time
