Deanna ENGLISH FOR EARTH’S
3 - DAY WORK SHOP

WORKBOOK

for Change-Makers Driving Impact
through English Communication

OPEN SHORESENGLISH

Welcome

Hi there

Thank you for your commitment to investing your time and energy into finding
more effective ways to utilize English- which will empower you, your business,
our communities, and our planet to thrive within a dynamic and complex global
system- by joining English for Earth’s 3-day workshop on English proficiency
and Earth advocacy.
Before proceeding with the details of this workshop, I want to remind you that I,
with Open Shores English, am here to serve you and the rest of the professional
community in taking the next steps in your personal growth or professional
development, by building longer-lasting relationships through clearer
communication that helps you reach your ultimate potential in expanding
your vision and outreach.
Over the next three days, we will explore the influence of positive story-telling
on your audience and practice strategies that help prevent situations that
could make us feel awkward or limited. We will look at the importance of
building upon our strengths while also addressing our challenge areas in
vocabulary usage and grammar, and implement the skills acquired in days 1
and 2 on repeat for a final task that will nurture your English practice beyond
the three-day workshop.
While our professional backgrounds may vary, our community of Global Goals
advocates is here to support you every step of the way.
Looking forward to working with you.

ABOUT ME
I’m Deanna, an English coach and 17SDG advocate,
and I’m here to support the small business owners,
environmental educators, sustainability consultants,
and other professionals in the community who want
to dominate English communication to have a
deeper impact on international stakeholders and
clients so that they can ultimately achieve the
dreams we all share for better trade, better
services, and a better world.

Habits to Adopt

Here I’m sharing with you two- just two- habits that I
highly recommend you adopt, in some form, as soon as
you commit to revitalizing your English practice at any
time.
The most important take-away is that you start doing
something regularly in English (especially if you’re not
interacting in English at work/home every day).

Incorporate writing of some sort into your everyday practice
Every other day writing journal entries (production) about feelings and
observations, every other day writing down the words and phrases in
articles that you find challenging (presentation/practice) and then using
them in sentences (even if sentences are copied from online on lazy
days). Read the sentences out loud for extra practice.
Every day (5/7 days a week) writing your plans for the day in English
when you wake up, or reflecting on what you did the day before
Read one e-newsletter every day (in chunks, if necessary), (if you hate
the idea, read novels- this is what I did)
These may be difficult to understand at first. And no, using a translator
isn’t cheating, it’s just less effective. What’s important is that you read
*out loud*, as reading an essential component of professional
communication and information sharing, and this will also help you get
clearer on pronunciation errors, when you compare your reading to
others’. Other techniques to engage more deeply with text to follow.
Record your summary (after scripting it or writing down key points to
remember in your summary) of the newsletter or an article it includes.
and upload your summaries to YouTube or social media platform to keep
others in-the-know (enhances professional credibility, or you can start a
book club with students around the world)

Day 1

Important:
The following image is a document you should have
received access to via your email.
Please click the link here if you have not downloaded
the document:

Please make sure
that you fill out the
form and submit it
for feedback for
the first day’s task,
in addition to
answering the
questions that
follow and are
covered in day 1 of
the workshop.


DAY 1 REFLECTIONTASKS

Today, we are re-writing our stories.

We are also addressing the common challenges and barriers that may
be holding you back from taking an active role in climate
communication, or advocacy for you, your business, or a a cause you

support, in English.

1 What parts of your English practice do you know that you need to start
working on immediately? Then, what parts that were once “non-urgent
but priority” can you start working on?

2 What negative thoughts go through your mind in high-pressure
situations in English- for example, when you must participate in a
conversation about a particular topic, or in one that requires knowledge
that you may have but are not sure you can share in English?

3 In what ways could we prevent some of the uncomfortable situations
that arise when communicating in English?

Helpful hint:
If you find yourself completely lost in a conversation, try to remember three keywords that
you will bring up when your interlocutor is finished speaking, and see if those continue to be
keywords as your interlocutor continues speaking. You can say, “Could you explain in another
way how keyword 1, keyword 2, and keyword 3 relate to one another?”
Focus on what you understand and getting more clarity- “I’m not sure how we jumped from
keyword 1 to keyword 2...”; do not focus on what anyone else is thinking, on what you didn’t hear,
etc.
Take notes during meetings and jot down both key points and parts that were unclear

DAY 1 REFLECTIONTASKS

What is “your story”?

(Alternatively, “What is your business’s story?” if you are attending the workshop to
build a better relationship with potential clients and stakeholders)

What causes do you support?

Write your story
Take 5 to 10 minutes to gush about yourself. If you are not one to “toot your own
horn”, be that person today, as if your life depended on your verbalizing the
experience, insight, and value that you embody here on Earth.
Of course, this relates to you occupation but it also Includes what you do outside of
your professional life, who you really are rather than “what you do”.


Did you omit English?
Write at least one line about how your English proficiency has contributed to
your success thus far.
Do you think it matters if your ability to communicate in English is part of “your
story”?
Alternatively, what parts of the story did you omit, and would you consider
including them in your story in a more positive light if it meant people could
understand you better?


Connecting your story with your future & current priorities
Take 2-5 minutes to explain how your story connects to your personal or
professional mission, and why a higher proficiency in English matters in
terms of your long-term desires.
It is very possible English was not part of your story before you read that part of the
task. However, it is important to consider your English practice a priority if parts of
your future will be more easily attainable due to better English communication.

Day 2

After having gained clarity around the elements that make up
our (and our business’s or organization’s) stories, as well as the
level of our confidence in sharing them, we will focus today on
bridging the gap between our strengths and the areas in which
we face the biggest challenges in our communication.
Take this time to consider times when you’ve walked away from a
conversation or presentation (in English *or* in another language)
feeling like you expressed yourself well and were able to
successful transmit an important message.
How well-prepared were you? What did you do to prepare?
What made talking easier, aside from being well-prepared?
(Consider the audience, what was at stake for you personally, what
outcome you had hoped to achieve, etc.)
BEFORE we meet on day 2, please watch:
Sustainability 101: ESG Reporting
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OT3gsCbCKdI
Climate Change: Why Should I Care?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Lr1LpR9wDH0
See Facebook group for questions shared and observations
requested related to video BEFORE day 2
Resources (do not overload yourself resources, choose few, if not these):
Pronunciation Apps:

Speak English Pro (American)
LearnEnglish Sounds Right (British)

Grammar:

British Council Learn English

https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/grammar

ONE newsletter or article related to trending topics in your field that
you can commit to reading OUT LOUD and writing down phrases that
are new or “unnatural” for you in speech

D A Y 2 R E F L E C T I O N T A S K S

What are your greatest strengths?
What do you need to work on?

When and how are you going to work on them?

Strengths
What do you know that you’re already good at? What is your “safe space” in
English conversations? (this may include your non-verbal communication as well)

Challenge areas
Review day 1 question 1. How do you know that these are challenge areas? How
important is it that you address them (as in, how deeply are they affecting the
quality of your communication)? What tangible benefits will addressing them bring
to you if you do so sooner rather than later?


Action plan
What are you going to start doing (and when will you start?) to ensure you have
made tangible gains in your communication 30 days from now, by using your
strengths to build up weak points in your communication?
For example, I love reading, and reading in Spanish (out loud!) has helped me with fluency.
However, I could be using my reading skills to also address my grammar problems in speech by
writing down sentences that use complex grammar structure I can recognize as “more advanced
than I would feel comfortable using”. Reading these sentences our loud and then using the same
grammar in my reflective writing for the day- and reading that out loud- would be an active way
to build my grammar skills in speech.

Day 3

You’re the expert: show us how it’s done!

Your final task will be posted on day 3.
The Facebook group will be open for two weeks
after the workshop to provide the support you
need if you decide to accept the challenge!

Thank you so much for your participation
in the 3-day workshop and please stay in
touch.

Free conversation/networking sessions
start in summer and you can write to book
an appointment with me any time to learn
more about the foreign language and
communication coaching services I offer
to sustainability professionals and
educators like you.

Cheering for you,

Deanna
OPEN SHORESENGLISH.COM  page 9

three posibles short answers to this question:

1. What parts of your English practice do you know that you need to start working on immediately? Then, what parts that were once “non-urgent but priority” can you start working on?
anwser:
Immediate focus: I need to practice listening more to improve my understanding of natural speech and accents.
Non-urgent but priority: 
I can start working on my reading comprehension by reading more complex texts and analyzing them in detail.

2. What negative thoughts go through your mind in high-pressure situations in English- for example, when you must participate in a conversation about a particular topic, or in one that requires knowledge that you may have but are not sure you can share in English?
Anwser:
I often worry about not being able to express myself clearly or make mistakes in grammar or pronunciation.

3. In what ways could we prevent some of the uncomfortable situations that arise when communicating in English?
Anwser:
By improving our language skills through practice and study, we can reduce misunderstandings and awkward 
moments.

#
#
Write your story
Take 5 to 10 minutes to gush about yourself. If you are not one to “toot your own horn”, be that person today, as if your life depended on your verbalizing the experience, insight, and value that you embody here on Earth. Of course, this relates to you occupation but it also Includes what you do outside of your professional life, who you really are rather than “what you do”.
Anwser:
I am a lifelong learner, always seeking out new knowledge and skills to expand my horizons. 
I am passionate about personal growth and development, both for myself and for those around me. 
Outside of work, I am an avid traveler, always eager to explore new cultures and experiences.

Did you omit English?
Write at least one line about how your English proficiency has contributed to your success thus far. 
Do you think it matters if your ability to communicate in English is part of “your story”? 
Alternatively, what parts of the story did you omit, and would you consider including them in your story in a more positive light if it meant people could understand you better?
Anwser:
Yes, I believe my ability to communicate in English is a crucial part of my story, as it has opened up 
opportunities and allowed me to connect with people from different backgrounds.

Connecting your story with your future & current priorities
Take 2-5 minutes to explain how your story connects to your personal or professional mission , and why a higher proficiency in English matters in terms of your long-term desires . It is very possible English was not part of your story before you read that part of the task. However, it is important to consider your English practice a priority if parts of your future will be more easily attainable due to better English communication. 
answer:
Before embarking on this journey, English was not a significant part of my story. However, recognizing 
its importance, I now prioritize English practice to enhance my communication skills. 
Improved English proficiency aligns with my long-term desires, enabling me to pursue advanced 
studies, engage in meaningful cross-cultural exchanges, and ultimately, contribute more effectively 
to society.

Strengths
What do you know that you’re already good at? What is your “safe space” in English conversations? (this may include your non-verbal communication as well)
answer:
In my professional life, I aim to excel in a globalized environment where English is often the primary 
language of communication. Improving my English proficiency is essential for achieving this goal, 
as it will enhance my ability to communicate clearly, negotiate effectively, and access a wealth of 
knowledge and resources that can propel my career forward.

Challenge areas
Review day 1 question 1. How do you know that these are challenge areas? How important is it that you address them (as in, how deeply are they affecting the quality of your communication)? What tangible benefits will addressing them bring to you if you do so sooner rather than later?
answer:
Identifying these challenge areas is key to improving my communication skills. By addressing them 
early, I can enhance my clarity and accuracy, leading to more effective communication and better 
relationships.

Action plan
What are you going to start doing (and when will you start?) to ensure you have made tangible gains in your communication 30 days from now, by using your strengths to build up weak points in your communication? For example, I love reading, and reading in Spanish (out loud!) has helped me with fluency. However, I could be using my reading skills to also address my grammar problems in speech by writing down sentences that use complex grammar structure I can recognize as “more advanced than I would feel comfortable using”. Reading these sentences our loud and then using the same grammar in my reflective writing for the day- and reading that out loud- would be an active way to build my grammar skills in speech.
answer:
To enhance my communication skills, I will start watching English movies with subtitles and then 
try to repeat the dialogues to practice my speaking and listening. 
I aim to start this weekend and continue it daily for the next 30 days.




