essay-apa-1-pagina

What is sustainability and why is it important?
Por: Gutiérrez, Miguel.
ID ORCID (https://orcid.org/0009-0006-4163-1556)
Sustainability is the practice of using resources in a way that meets the needs of the present without 
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It is an essential concept 
that focuses on balancing environmental, social, and economic considerations to create a 
harmonious and lasting impact on the world. do.i
 The word "sustainability" is formed with Latin 
roots and means "the quality of being able to stand on its own".ii
One of the most important aspects of sustainability is that it is directly related to the most important 
thing: life, sustaining life means preventing the end of life on planet Earth, and specifically, the 
environment, society, and the economy are the aspects in which we can work to ensure a living 
space for future generations. We must avoid consuming or destroying the planet; a lifeless planet 
can only offer death, sounding the alarm for the end of life on Earth, the end of the world. 
According to the above, I conclude, truly, it is a very important topic as it relates to sustaining the 
life of the only known living planet at present, hence its significance. It is a fact that, if the Earth 
dies, our distant neighbor "the moon" will not be waiting for us with open arms to inhabit it. The 
importance of sustainability lies in its balance between economic growth, environmental 
preservation, and social well-being, ensuring that we do not compromise the ability of future 
generations to meet their own needs.
Simple truth, right? Yes, but crucial for our future generations. If we pay attention to this issue 
now, we will reduce the death of planet Earth. After all, who could live on a dead planet? Nobody, 
right?.
Bibliographic References 
i. OpenAI. (2022). GPT-3.5. OpenAI. https://www.openai.com/
ii. DECEL (2023). Diccionario Etimologico Castellano En Linea https://etimologias.dechile.net/?sostenibilidad
i OpenAI. (2022). GPT-3.5. OpenAI. https://www.openai.com/
ii DECEL (2023). Diccionario Etimologico Castellano En Linea https://etimologias.dechile.net/?sostenibilidad