 Congressional reaction. Where is the White House? Not in the lead, that's for sure. Number one. It's unbelievable that they're allowing this to happen. Listen, everyone is entitled to their freedom of speech, but this is not right. UCLA is responsible for this, and they need to shut this down now. And that is a college campus kid at KTTV, our local Fox affiliate in Los Angeles, on the campus of UCLA. College campus chaos. How the cops are once again called on to bail out the entitled, corrupt, next generation of American college students. And their inept college leadership, from the takedown of Columbia to the unrestricted brawl at UCLA, we have it all. Greg Gulkianoff joins us now, lawyer and president of the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression. Greg, welcome. You are one of the few people, I imagine, not surprised about what's going on in college campuses in this country. Not in the least. We've been up, you know, we've been doing this all day now at FIRE, the Foundation for Individual Rights and Expression, from when we get up in the morning to when we go to bed at night, because it's just been so completely nuts. And some of it, to be clear, Brian, is protected speech. A lot of it isn't. And it's been such a mess. And I always have to start, Brian, by explaining, guys, there seems to be a cadre of people who just noticed free speech issues when it's about a cause they care about. And I'm not saying that's a bad thing. I'm pointing out. Free speech on campus has been in trouble, you know, for a long time now. It's been in crisis since at least 2017. The cancel culture that stops you from saying anything that might people upset. For example, you leave off a pronoun. That offends people. Let's kick them out. Let's cancel them. Now, all of a sudden, they pretend to be Yasser Arafat and they do massive sit-ins and pretend as if the Palestinian cause is the only thing that matters in the world. I doubt the sincerity of it. I worry where it comes from. But clearly, outside forces have something to do with it. And now when I'm seeing that they're holding out for something where they want these colleges, big and small, to divest from Israel. I mean, when you tell me you're holding out for the Vietnam War and the... You tell me you're marching for civil rights and segregation and Jim Crow in the South. I get it. There's inequality. There's inequality. But now, suddenly, you're worried about Gaza, the Israelis? Well, I think a lot of these students are sincere. But I definitely believe that what happened at Columbia with the takeover of Hamilton Hall, I believe the reports that involved outside agitators. A lot of people at Columbia, including Professor John McWhorter and my co-author, Rick Slott. And what she said was, one, the campus was effectively shut down at times by the scale of the encampments. But the nastiest... The nastiest protestors were the people right beyond the Columbia gates. The ones who are actually more likely to engage in violence against Jewish students. And, you know, when they actually... And they didn't do themselves any favors as a First Amendment lawyer, where they actually went on record saying, the only thing that will remove us from Hamilton Hall is force.

link:
https://replicate.com/openai/whisper?prediction=qtvzpkbbmxrga0cf6kn8jyppag