Greetings, everyone,

This time, I will increase the difficulty of my presentation a bit. 

I will do it standing up and, at times, walking or exercising, in order to enhance fluency in reading.

I would like to become an expert in the English language, reaching level C2, as they say, practice makes perfect. 

So, I'm taking on the role of a language teacher in my presentations. 

I focus on imitating those who know and repeating, repeating, and repeating.

I am a systems engineer graduate from Simon Bolivar University in Barranquilla. 

Currently, I am researching and studying programming in Angular on my own through the internet. 

I'm still in the learning curve, but I'm getting there.
 
I aspire to become an expert in this programming language. 

It's another  of my dreams, hoping to generate income as a professional. 

At the moment, I'm not earning any income. 

I resumed my studies with the support of my family. 

I spent 10 years working as an electronic technician in Apartado Antioquia, owning a workshop for appliance brands called "Servicios y Soluciones Miguel Gutiérrez." 

I had the opportunity to work with successful brands such as Simply, Hyundai, Sankey, and Meico (Visivo) until the end of the COVID-19 pandemic, which destabilized the company to the point of closure.

Now, I'm focusing on programming, which is more related to my field of study.

It's a pleasure to be in this group. I hope to contribute and participate in the group and learn from it. 
Consider me a friend.

Video presentation of 'Social Forum': 

Apprentice:
Miguel Gutierrez

Course:
ENGLISH DOES WORK - LEVEL 7 

                      1. Introduction:
Hello everyone!, this is Miguel Gutierrez ​from English Course Level 7.​

And in this video We are going to learn about the topic: ​
How to Talk About Yourself​
evidence: social forum “Foro social”​

Very well, let's have fun.​

#

Oh! I almost forgot, our mission. ok

2. Our Mission!!!,

The mission of presenting oneself to others is to establish connections, communicate relevant information, 
and create a positive impression that aligns with your goals and the context in which you find yourself.​



1. "Alright, enough talking, let's get started!"
2. "No more delay, let's begin right away!"
3. "Now that we're ready, let's kick things off!"

#
Talk about myself

                      page1:
My name is Miguel Gutierrez. ​
I am forty-five years old.
I am Colombian.
I was born and raised in Cartago valle​ del cauca
Now I live and work in Cartagena bolivar ​
I come from a family of four my parents, sister and myself.​
-
                      page2:
I work at a tecnology store during the day 
in the afternoons, I go to school 
I am a student at a university   
I study computer science because I find computer subjects very interesting 
I always try to do my best at school 
I also work hard at home 
-
                      page3:
One day, I hope to achieve my goals.
I want to live a fulfilling life not only for myself but also for my family 
In my free time, I enjoy playing soccer
I am a Real Cartagena fan.
I also hang out with my friends.
We like eating pizza, hotdogs, burgers and fries.
-
                      page4:
At other times, I play the guitar.
I love the feeling of creating beautiful tunes.
One of my favorite past times is reading.
I enjoy reading a good book.
I read different stories and other subjects.
Reading also makes me explore the world and other cultures.
-
                      page5:
I also value spending time with my family.     
I always treasure the moments we share.
My family is a big part of my life. 


                      5. Question:
Now my question in this video is this:

What would you like to tell me about yourself?

                      6. farewell:

So leave your answers below this video

And remember, you are the best of the best.
Thank for watching, and See you next time.








