

In casual English A: 'tell a story or share an experience of 3 minutes' about B: 'What work situation has occurred?' 
using C: 'the database of Miguel Gutiérrez' 
Include as many examples as possible from D: 'the training component' 
then verify and list which examples are included

in the answer, include: 
Here are "A"  based "C" "B" "D":

training component:

#
Here are three Zero Conditional sentences about work situations using Miguel Gutiérrez's database:
1. If Miguel attends to the variety store, he sells hardware items.
2. If customers visit Miguel’s workshop, he provides electronic repairs.
3. If Miguel has free time, he practices English.

 
Here are three first conditional sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. If Miguel's family store gets more customers, they will expand their product range to include more hardware items.
2. If Miguel continues improving his English, he will start teaching basic English classes to generate additional income.
3. If Miguel learns new programming skills, he will be able to work as a virtual programmer and increase his earnings.

Here are three first conditional sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. If Miguel Gutiérrez worked in a tech company in Cartagena, he would likely use his skills in systems engineering and electronics to innovate new solutions.
2. If Miguel Gutiérrez managed to open another electronics workshop, he would attract more clients from well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito and Hyundai.
3. If Miguel Gutiérrez found a remote programming job, he would have the flexibility to travel to the United States while continuing to generate income.

Here are three "Third conditional" sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. If Miguel Gutiérrez had stayed in Apartadó, he would have continued running his electronics workshop successfully.
2. If Miguel Gutiérrez had learned more about business management, he might have expanded his electronics workshop to other cities.
3. If Miguel Gutiérrez had not closed his workshop due to COVID-19, he could have maintained his business and kept working with well-known companies.

Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using the modal verb "should have":
1. Miguel Gutiérrez should have considered negotiating for a higher price when selling the heat stations for cell phone repair.
2. Miguel Gutiérrez should have reviewed the offer for the heat stations more carefully before deciding not to accept it.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez should have consulted with someone experienced in sales before attempting to negotiate for a better deal.


Here are three sentences about Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using "Modal verb could have":

1. Miguel Gutiérrez could have pursued a career in electronic engineering, but he chose systems engineering due to its closer relation to technology and its potential applications in his electronics work.
2. Miguel Gutiérrez could have continued his workshop as an electronic technician in Apartadó, but due to declining profits and the impact of COVID-19, he made the difficult decision to close it and focus on working with his family in their variety store.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez could have accepted an offer of 100,000 pesos and a second-hand cell phone for three heat stations he was selling, but he considered the offer too low and decided not to accept it.

Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. Miguel Gutiérrez might have considered returning to electronic repair work after closing his workshop due to declining profits and the impact of COVID-19.
2. Miguel Gutiérrez might have thought about pursuing virtual programming as a way to generate more income, especially considering the potential earnings for those who know English.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez might have contemplated teaching English online, starting from basic levels, as a way to generate income and utilize his English skills.


Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation "mast have":
1. Miguel Gutiérrez must have faced a challenging work situation when he decided to close his electronics workshop in Apartadó due to declining profits and the impact of COVID-19 on his health and personal life.
2. After working as an electronic technician for ten years and serving well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, and Sankey, Miguel Gutiérrez must have acquired valuable skills and experience in the electronics field.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez must have found working with his family in their variety store rewarding, as it allows him to spend more time with his family and pursue his interests in singing, playing musical instruments, and learning English.

Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's situation "have to":
1. If Miguel Gutiérrez wants to improve his income as a virtual programmer, he has to dedicate more time to learning and practicing English to facilitate his work opportunities.
2. If Miguel Gutiérrez plans to travel to the United States and communicate effectively with potential clients, he has to prioritize his English learning routine and maintain his daily practice sessions.
3. If Miguel Gutiérrez aims to find a girlfriend who is a native English speaker, he has to actively engage in language learning activities and seek opportunities to interact with English-speaking communities to improve his fluency.

Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using the expression "were supposed to":
1. Miguel Gutiérrez and his family were supposed to open the hardware store at 8 a.m., but they arrived late due to a flat tire.
2. Miguel Gutiérrez was supposed to attend an important meeting with a supplier yesterday, but he had to cancel at the last minute due to a family emergency.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez and his team were supposed to finish restocking the shelves by noon, but they underestimated the amount of stock needed and had to continue working into the afternoon.


Here are three 'Was supposed to (A)' sentences about 'What work situation has occurred? (B)' using the database of 'Miguel Gutiérrez (C)':
1. I was supposed to start a new project at work last week, but the client postponed the kickoff meeting.
2. Miguel was supposed to receive a promotion this month, but the company decided to freeze all promotions due to budget constraints.
3. The team was supposed to finish the project by the end of June, but unexpected delays have pushed the deadline to August.


Here are three sentences using "Were going to" about Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. Miguel Gutiérrez and his family were going to expand their variety store business to include more hardware items, but they decided to focus on selling disposable food items due to budget constraints.
2. Miguel Gutiérrez and his family were going to hire additional staff for their store, but they postponed the decision because of the economic uncertainty caused by the pandemic.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez and his family were going to renovate their store to attract more customers, but they decided to wait until the local economy improves.


Here are three "was going to" sentences based on the work situation of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. **I was going to start my own electronics repair business, but the economy declined, and then the COVID-19 pandemic hit, forcing me to close my workshop.**
2. **Miguel was going to expand his electronics repair workshop to offer nationwide technical services, but due to economic reasons and the impact of COVID-19 on his health and family, he had to abandon this idea.**
3. **He was going to negotiate a better price for his heat stations and even tried to include a second-hand cell phone in the deal, but in the end, he came back home without making the sale.**


Here are three sentences using the "I have had some issues!" phrase, based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. I have had some issues! Miguel Gutiérrez's workshop faced a sudden shortage of electronic components, delaying repairs for several customers.
2. I have had some issues! Miguel Gutiérrez's store experienced a problem with the supplier, causing a temporary shortage of disposable food items.
3. I have had some issues! Miguel Gutiérrez had to deal with a difficult customer who was unsatisfied with a purchase and demanded a refund.


Here are three "I do not have any clue of how it is going to be!" sentences about "What work situation has occurred?" using the database of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. I do not have any clue of how it is going to be if Miguel Gutiérrez decides to start his own business in electronics again.
2. I do not have any clue of how it is going to be if Miguel Gutiérrez receives a job offer from a multinational company.
3. I do not have any clue of how it is going to be if Miguel Gutiérrez chooses to focus solely on his English teaching career.

Here are three "Everything is going well!" sentences about "What work situation has occurred?" using the database of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. Everything is going well at work for Miguel Gutiérrez; he is managing his store efficiently and enjoying his time with his family.
2. Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation is going well; he is successfully balancing his responsibilities at the store and his personal interests.
3. Despite some challenges, everything is going well for Miguel Gutiérrez at work; he is content with his role in the family business.


Here are three "Everything is crazy!" sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. Everything is crazy! Miguel could have had a stable job with his own workshop, but he ended up working with his family in a variety store.
2. Everything is crazy! Miguel was supposed to have a successful career as an electronic technician, but now he's selling a wide variety of items in a hardware and disposable food store.
3. Everything is crazy! Miguel was going to be a renowned technician for well-known companies, but now he's managing a small shop in his neighborhood.

Here are three "I've got to cut corners!" sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:

1. **Miguel's Family Store**: Miguel Gutiérrez has been managing the family store selling hardware and disposable items, but the business has faced financial constraints. *"I've got to cut corners!"* he said, realizing they needed to minimize expenses to keep the store afloat.
2. **Electronic Repair Workshop**: When Miguel Gutiérrez was running his electronic repair workshop in Apartadó, the decline in profits forced him to find ways to reduce costs. *"I've got to cut corners!"* he thought, strategizing to use cheaper materials without compromising on quality.
3. **Current Job**: Currently, Miguel Gutiérrez is working with his family in their variety store. Due to fluctuating sales and high operational costs, he often tells himself, *"I've got to cut corners!"* as he looks for ways to streamline their inventory and reduce overheads.

Here are three "It’s not rocket science!" sentences based on the work situation from the database of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. **It’s not rocket science!** Miguel Gutiérrez knows that helping with sales and housework at his family's store doesn't require advanced skills; it's all about being organized and attentive.
2. When Miguel Gutiérrez needed to close his workshop due to declining profits and COVID-19, he realized that managing the new family store was simpler than he thought. **It’s not rocket science!**
3. **It’s not rocket science!** Miguel Gutiérrez found that balancing his time between helping in the family store and learning English is just a matter of discipline and routine.

Here are three "It’s time to get the ball rolling!" sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. It’s time to get the ball rolling! Miguel Gutiérrez needs to start looking for new clients to expand his family store's reach.
2. It’s time to get the ball rolling! Miguel Gutiérrez should kick off his online programming courses to generate additional income.
3. It’s time to get the ball rolling! Miguel Gutiérrez must begin his preparations to relaunch his electronics workshop in Apartadó.

Here are three "For the long haul!" sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. Miguel Gutiérrez decided to close his workshop in Apartadó and move back to Cartagena for the long haul.
2. Even though Miguel currently works in his family's variety store, he is dedicated to learning English for the long haul to improve his job prospects.
3. Miguel has committed to practicing his guitar solo daily, indicating he's in it for the long haul despite the challenges.

Here are three "Change of pace!" sentences based on the database of Miguel Gutiérrez about what work situation has occurred:

1. Change of pace! Miguel Gutiérrez decided to shift from working as an electronic technician to helping his family run their variety store in Cartagena.
2. After spending 10 years managing his workshop in Apartadó, Miguel felt it was time for a change of pace! Now, he's focused on sales and housework at his family’s store.
3. With the decline in profits from his workshop and the impact of COVID-19, Miguel Gutiérrez embraced a change of pace! by transitioning to work with his family in their local store.

Here are three "Think outside the box!" sentences about "What work situation has occurred?" using the database of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. Think outside the box! If Miguel Gutiérrez had known about the upcoming changes in the market, he could have adapted his business model accordingly.
2. Think outside the box! Miguel Gutiérrez might have had more success if he had explored new, innovative ways to market his products.
3. Think outside the box! Had Miguel Gutiérrez considered outsourcing certain tasks, he could have saved time and resources.

Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation:
1. We are on the same page! If Miguel had continued his workshop as an electronic technician, he could have expanded his services to include more complex electronic repairs.
2. We are on the same page! Miguel should have focused more on marketing his workshop to attract a larger customer base.
3. We are on the same page! If Miguel had hired an assistant for his workshop, he might have been able to handle more repair orders and expand his business.


Here are three "Sequence linkers" sentences based on the work situation of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. "First of all", Miguel Gutiérrez had a stable job as an electronic technician with his own workshop in Apartadó for ten years.
2. "A final point", Miguel Gutiérrez currently works with his family in a variety store, which sells hardware and disposable food items.
3. "Another" aspect of Miguel Gutiérrez's work history is that he previously worked for well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, and Sankey, attending to their electronic item guarantees from his workshop named "Servicios y Soluciones Miguel Gutiérrez."


Here are three sentences using "Sequence linkers Second, To begin, After" about Miguel Gutierrez's work situation:
1. Second, Miguel Gutierrez worked as an electronic technician in his own workshop in Apartadó for ten years before joining his family's variety store business.
2. To begin, Miguel Gutierrez had a successful tenure as an electronic technician, servicing well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, and Sankey from his workshop in Apartadó.
3. After closing his workshop due to declining profits and the impact of COVID-19, Miguel Gutierrez started working with his family in a variety store selling hardware and disposable food items.


Here are three sentences about Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using the sequence linkers "At last," "In addition," and "In the first place":
1. At last, Miguel Gutiérrez found a new opportunity to work as a virtual programmer, which he had been aspiring to for some time.
2. In addition, Miguel Gutiérrez decided to take on more responsibilities at his family's variety store to contribute more to the business.
3. In the first place, Miguel Gutiérrez faced challenges at work due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which led him to explore new career opportunities.


Here are three sentences about Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using the sequence linkers "Later," "Before," and "As soon as":
1. Later, after Miguel's workshop business declined and he closed it due to the economic impact of COVID-19, he started working with his family in their variety store, which sells hardware and disposable food items.
2. Before closing his workshop, Miguel considered various options to revive his business, including expanding his services and seeking new clients.
3. As soon as Miguel realized the declining profits from his workshop, he began exploring other income-generating opportunities, leading him to join his family's variety store business.


Firstly, To conclude, At first, Next, In short
Here are three sentences using the sequence linkers "Firstly," "To conclude," and "At first" about a work situation that occurred using Miguel Gutierrez's database:
1. Firstly, Miguel encountered a problem with a customer's electronic device that was difficult to diagnose, requiring additional time and effort to resolve.
2. To conclude, after several attempts to fix the issue, Miguel successfully repaired the device, ensuring the customer's satisfaction and trust in his services.
3. At first, Miguel was unsure about the best approach to solve the problem, but with perseverance and expertise, he managed to overcome the challenge.


Next, In short, At the end
Here are three sentences using the sequence linkers "Next," "In short," and "At the end" to describe a work situation that has occurred based on Miguel Gutierrez's database:
1. Next, Miguel Gutierrez encountered a challenging work situation when a neighbor offered to buy three heat stations for cell phone repair for 100,000 pesos but considered asking for more, which led to a humorous exchange with his mother about his negotiation skills.
2. In short, Miguel Gutierrez decided not to accept the offer and returned home with the heat stations, reflecting on his attempt to negotiate and realizing that he is not the type of person to trick others with words.
3. At the end, Miguel Gutierrez concluded that his mother's teasing was lighthearted and took the experience as a lesson about his nature, highlighting his honesty and straightforwardness in business dealings.


All in all, Eventually, Meanwhile
Here are three sentences about Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using the sequence linkers "All in all," "Eventually," and "Meanwhile":
1. All in all, Miguel Gutiérrez has faced some challenges at work, but he remains optimistic about finding solutions.
2. Eventually, Miguel Gutiérrez managed to resolve the work issues he was facing, thanks to his perseverance and dedication.
3. Meanwhile, Miguel Gutiérrez continued to work diligently with his family, ensuring the success of their variety store.


Lastly, Last but not least, In conclusion
Here are three sentences about the work situation that occurred using the database of Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. Lastly, Miguel Gutiérrez faced a challenging situation at work when a customer returned a faulty item, which was a rare occurrence given their store's reputation for quality products.
2. Last but not least, in another work scenario, Miguel Gutiérrez had to handle a dispute between two employees, showing his skills in conflict resolution and team management.
3. In conclusion, despite the recent work issues, Miguel Gutiérrez's dedication to his family's store and his commitment to customer satisfaction remain unwavering.




Finally, First, For a start
Here are three sentences using "Sequence linkers" to describe a work situation that occurred in Miguel Gutiérrez's database:
1. Finally, Miguel decided to close his electronic technician workshop in Apartadó after facing declining profits and the impact of COVID-19 on his health and community.
2. First, Miguel worked for ten years as an electronic technician in Apartadó, servicing companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, and Sankey, before transitioning to work with his family in a variety store.
3. For a start, Miguel's interest in electronics led him to study systems engineering and work as a technician, eventually opening his own workshop before shifting to his current role in the variety store.


In the end, Further, To start with
Here are three sentences about a work situation that occurred to Miguel Gutiérrez using the sequence linkers "In the end," "Further," and "To start with":
1. In the end, Miguel Gutiérrez decided to leave his workshop and start working with his family in the variety store.
2. Further, Miguel Gutiérrez faced challenges with declining profits and the impact of COVID-19 on his electronics workshop.
3. To start with, Miguel Gutiérrez had a successful business servicing well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, and Sankey before joining his family's store.

At this point, To summarize, Then
Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation using the sequence linkers "At this point," "To summarize," and "Then":
1. At this point, Miguel was working as an electronic technician with his own workshop in Apartadó, servicing well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, and Sankey.
2. To summarize, Miguel transitioned from running his electronic technician workshop for ten years to working with his family in a variety store selling hardware and disposable food items.
3. Then, Miguel faced some work issues, which led him to close his workshop and focus on the variety store business with his family.

Furthermore, Besides

Here are three sentences using "Furthermore" and "Besides" about work situations for Miguel Gutiérrez:
1. Miguel Gutiérrez has faced some work issues. Furthermore, these challenges have prompted him to seek new opportunities for personal and professional growth.
2. Besides the daily responsibilities at his family's variety store, Miguel Gutiérrez has been exploring ways to expand his skills and knowledge in electronics, reflecting his commitment to continuous learning.
3. Miguel Gutiérrez has considered various strategies to enhance the performance of the variety store. Furthermore, he has been proactive in seeking innovative solutions to improve customer satisfaction and business success.


I think, I believe, I feel 
Here are three sentences expressing opinions about a work situation that occurred, using Miguel Gutiérrez's database:

1. I think Miguel Gutiérrez handled the work situation with the neighbor offering to buy the heat stations very wisely.
2. I believe Miguel Gutiérrez could have negotiated a better deal for the heat stations with the neighbor.
3. I feel Miguel Gutiérrez was supposed to get a fair price for the heat stations, considering their value.



In my opinion... and, I would say

Here are three sentences expressing opinions about Miguel Gutierrez's work situation:
1. In my opinion, Miguel Gutierrez's transition from running his own electronic technician workshop to working with his family in a variety store seems like a positive change, allowing him to spend more time with his family and potentially explore new opportunities.
2. I would say Miguel Gutierrez's decision to close his workshop and focus on the family business was a wise move, considering the challenges he faced, especially with the declining economy and the impact of COVID-19 on his health and personal life.
3. I believe Miguel Gutierrez's work situation reflects his adaptability and resilience, as he navigates changes in his career path with a positive attitude and a commitment to learning and growth.


I really think, I strongly believe, I truly feel 
Here are three sentences based on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situations:
1. I really think Miguel Gutiérrez had an issue at work that he's trying to resolve using his experience as an electronic technician.
2. I strongly believe Miguel Gutiérrez encountered a work situation that required his expertise in electronics and problem-solving skills.
3. I truly feel Miguel Gutiérrez is facing a work challenge that he's handling with his family in their variety store, drawing on his past experience as an electronic technician.

In my honest opinion, From my point of view, It seems to me that
Here are three "A" sentences based on the "C" "B" situation:
1. In my honest opinion, it was quite a surprise when Miguel Gutiérrez transitioned from running his electronics workshop to helping with the family variety store. In my honest opinion, this change was influenced by several factors, including economic downturns and personal health challenges. In my honest opinion, this situation showcases Miguel's adaptability and dedication to his family's business despite the unexpected career shift.
2. From my point of view, the work situation Miguel Gutiérrez experienced, moving from an electronics technician to a variety store assistant, reflects the resilience required to navigate economic difficulties. From my point of view, this situation highlights the importance of family support and the ability to pivot in one's career. From my point of view, Miguel's commitment to learning English and other skills during this transition is commendable.
3. It seems to me that the work situation Miguel Gutiérrez faced, especially after closing his electronics workshop, underscores the impact of external factors like the COVID-19 pandemic on small businesses. It seems to me that Miguel's proactive approach in joining the family store and continuing his education is a testament to his perseverance. It seems to me that this situation reveals Miguel's strong character and willingness to adapt to changing circumstances.

What do you think of...?, What are your thoughts on...?, How do you feel about...? and
Here are three "Expressing opinion" sentences based on the "database of Miguel Gutiérrez" and the "work situation that occurred":
1. What do you think of the time Miguel sold three heat stations for cell phone repair for 100,000 pesos? Considering his extensive experience in electronics, he might have valued them higher. In your opinion, how do you think his decision impacted his business?
2. What are your thoughts on Miguel's transition from running his own workshop to working in his family's variety store? Given his background and skills, how do you think this change has affected his professional satisfaction and daily routine?
3. How do you feel about Miguel's decision to close his workshop in Apartadó after facing the economic decline and health issues during the COVID-19 pandemic? Reflecting on his long career as an electronic technician, what do you think were the key factors in making this tough decision?


What’s your opinion on...?
Here are three "A" sentences based on "C" "B" situation:
1. What's your opinion on Miguel Gutiérrez transitioning from running his own electronic technician workshop to working in a variety store with his family? In my opinion, it must have been a significant change for him, but it might have provided a different kind of stability.
2. What's your opinion on the impact of the pandemic on Miguel Gutiérrez's work situation, leading to the closure of his workshop? I believe the pandemic forced many people, including Miguel, to adapt quickly and make tough decisions for their livelihoods.
3. What's your opinion on Miguel Gutiérrez's decision to help in the family variety store after closing his workshop? I feel that his choice to support the family business shows his dedication and resilience in facing challenging work situations.

Miguel Gutierrez's Database:
Personal Information

    As of the present date: 05/31/2024, I have the following information:
    Name: Miguel Gutiérrez
    Nationality: Colombian
    Place of Birth: Cartago, Valle del Cauca (lived there the first year)
    Current Residence: Cartagena
    Age: 44 years old (born on 08/04/1979)
    Sex: Male
    Weight: 75 kilograms
    Height: 1.70 meters
    Skin Color: Olive
    Build: Slim
    Sexual Orientation: Heterosexual
    Current Marital Status: Single
    Email: miguelepst@hotmail.com and miguelepst@gmail.com
    Cell Phone Number: +57 (Colombia) 312 4872877 (also for WhatsApp)
    ID Number: 4441234
    Did not serve in the military; my parents paid for my military card.
    I live in the El Pozón neighborhood of Cartagena, Bolívar
    Address: Manzana 118 Lote 6 Sector 19 de Febrero
    My family consists of my mother, my sister, my sister’s daughter, and my sister’s husband.

More About Me

    Good son
    Good lover in relationships
    Loving
    Tender
    Sentimental; certain movies can make me cry easily. I have another story about this from when I was with my classmates at university, but I’ll mention it later.
    Cowardly about pain; I don’t like injections. I prefer taking a pill or syrup when I’m sick, but when it’s necessary, it’s necessary.
    Extreme sports are not my thing.
    I don’t have any tattoos yet; maybe in the future.
    I pierced my ears once, but I don’t wear earrings now.
    I once let my hair grow very long, below my shoulders, and kept it for about three years. This was when I was working in my own workshop in Apartadó.

Education

    Graduated from university at 25 years old as a systems engineer from Simón Bolívar University in Barranquilla.
    Graduated with a technical degree in electronics at 19 years old.
    Technician in Electronics, Centro Inca, Barranquilla, in 2017. I started studying for the technical degree in electronics, which took 2 years.
    Studied systems engineering in Barranquilla. Graduated in 2005. Took a diploma course in software engineering. The degree lasted 11 semesters. I studied at night while helping my parents with their restaurant during the day. Initially, I wanted to study electronic engineering, but it was too expensive. I decided on systems engineering because it was closely related to technology and could help me in my electronics work. For example, creating an algorithm for a robot or robotic arm in a factory motivated me to pursue this career. Finally, I graduated as a systems engineer from Simón Bolívar University in Barranquilla.

It has taken me a lot of effort to learn the skills I currently have. It has taken much time and effort. I feel like I am in the same situation as most people; it has been the opposite. It has been about wanting to learn and doing what seemed very difficult to learn at first. At times, I would give up and then restart, which hindered progress. This happened with everything I tried to learn between the ages of 15 and 30.
Places I Have Lived

    Cartago, Valle del Cauca (first year of life)
    Apartadó (3 years)
    Cartagena (until 22 years old)
    Bogotá (3 years)
    Apartadó (12 years)
    Cartagena (lived here for 15 years initially, returned at 41 years old, and have been living here for 4 years until now)

Travel Journey:

    Lived in Apartadó for 3 years.
    Then moved to Cartagena until today.
    At 22, moved to Bogotá.
    At 26, moved to Apartadó for 12 years.
    At 41, returned to Cartagena, where I’ve lived the longest.

I spend all day at home, attending to anything that needs doing, as my mother’s house is divided into two parts: one is a business or store selling various items to neighbors, and the other is the residence, making it both a home and a business.
Relationships

    Common-law relationship with Marli (3 years)

    Common-law relationship with Alejandra (4 years)

    At 23, a common-law relationship with Marli in Cartagena lasted three years.

    At 30, a second common-law relationship with Alejandra in Apartadó lasted four years.

My thoughts on relationships:
Being alone is fantastic, but being in a relationship is a challenge. Being alone is not bad, but being in a relationship is a challenge. That’s why I would like to have a partner again. Not having children is easier than having them, but I would like to experience that challenge. I dream of having two children. There was a time when I saw being alone as a problem, but now I see it as a blessing. However, I would like to face that problem someday and manage it with love, which is the best way to handle everything.
Work

    Electronic Technician with own workshop in Apartadó (10 years), worked for well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, Sankey, which were clients of his workshop.
    Currently works with family in a variety store (hardware and disposable food items)

My work: I currently work with my family, and we own a variety store in the area of hardware and disposable food items. I have worked in Apartadó in my workshop as an electronic technician for ten years. I also worked for well-known companies like Almacenes Éxito, Hyundai, Sankey, attending to their electronic item guarantees from my workshop, named "Servicios y Soluciones Miguel Gutiérrez." I am very grateful.

What I do currently: My family has a store that sells various items to our neighbors. It’s a shop that sells a wide variety of things like disposable food items, napkins, straws, screwdrivers, light bulbs, electrical accessories like cables, switches, sockets, and nails. It’s like a mini hardware store. The store is in our home. I help with sales and housework, and at the same time, I use the free time the job gives me to practice and learn English by attending virtual meetings or classes. I also spend a lot of time with my family.

These are some of the products we sell in the hardware store:
electrical tapes, tools like screwdrivers, measuring tapes, home electrical accessories like light switches, plugs, sockets, bulbs, food consumables like disposable food packaging. We also sell paintbrushes. It’s a wide variety of items.
Hobbies and Interests

    Singing
    Playing guitar
    Playing piano
    Listening to music
    Dancing
    Going to the gym
    Learning English
    Traveling to the United States
    Having a girlfriend from the US or Asia who speaks English
    Continuing programming learning
    Generating more income as a virtual programmer

My hobbies: singing, playing the guitar, playing the piano, listening to music, dancing, going to the gym, learning to speak English.

Interests:
What I would most like to do in the near future:

    Travel to the United States and see all the famous places I’ve seen on TV since I was a child.
    Have a girlfriend who is a native of the United States, a "gringa." I also really like women from China and Japan, but they must speak English because I don’t plan to learn another language. With God’s help, I will learn to speak English.
    Continue my programming learning process. English is another tool that will help me in this process. I currently have it paused because I feel that when I do many things simultaneously, none of them progress well. I hope to reach a good level of English so I can resume learning without dropping English, as it’s now a new aspect of my daily life. Knowing this, I also hope to generate more income as a virtual programmer. I understand they earn well, and those who know English earn even more. The good thing is that when you really know how to do something, you do it easily. It doesn’t take much effort and is even fun to get paid a lot for doing it. The problem is when you don’t know how to do it or only partially know how. This state doesn’t help much; it’s very tough. You have to struggle a lot.
    As a child, I wanted to go to Japan, but as an adult, I learned about the many earthquakes there, and now I’m not so interested.

My short-term goals: generate income with English, either as an English teacher starting from basic levels A1, A2, and as I advance in my English level, teaching higher levels, or another activity that knowing English facilitates virtually without having to leave home or move elsewhere. For example, if I have to travel to the United States, I’d like to work from there without needing to move to an office.

What I like in a woman as a partner:


**What I Like in a Woman as a Partner:**
- Polite
- Respectful
- Grateful to God and life
- Can't hide her love and affection for me, even when angry with me, she still finds me attractive.
- Young at heart, though if she is actually young, even better. My father was 20 years older than my mother, and she loved him. Many women find older men more interesting, not just for inheritance, keep that in mind, girls, ha ha ha.
- Slim, with an hourglass figure, a pretty face, beautiful eyes, a nice smile, a beautiful butt, looks fantastic in a long dress, has long hair, sexually active but only with me, faithful, not unfaithful.
- Speaks English, preferably from Asia or has Asian features, or is from the United States, a native English speaker.
- Has plenty of time for me and the family, not spending more time at work than with family.

**Other Preferences:**

**Regarding Food:**
- I like rice; it's very common to eat rice every day. I like eggs, beef, but not eating it every day.
- Favorite dishes: Bandeja paisa, seafood casserole.

**The Bandeja Paisa**:
The Bandeja Paisa is an iconic dish in Colombian cuisine, typical of the Antioquia region and representative of Colombia. This dish consists of a hearty combination of ingredients including beans, white rice, beef, pork crackling, fried egg, chorizo, ripe plantain, avocado, arepa, and hogao. It's known for its variety of flavors and textures, being a substantial and traditional option in Colombian cooking. The Bandeja Paisa is characterized by its culinary richness and its origin in the Paisa region, reflecting the diversity and gastronomic tradition of Colombia.

**Preferred Climate**:
- I prefer mild weather, not extremes. For example, I don't like very hot weather, nor do I like very cold weather.

**Former Passion: Electronics**:
At one point, my passion was electronics:
- So much so that my email address refers to my business idea in this area. My email is: miguelepst@hotmail.com. EPST stands for Empresa Proveedora de Servicios Técnicos. It was like a health EPS in Colombia, but my idea was about the health of appliances, which also have a lifespan. I envisioned a national EPST with IPST (Instituciones Prestadoras de Servicios de Salud Técnico) branches spread across other cities in Colombia, with many customers affiliated with them.
- I didn’t know how to bring this idea to life. The most I achieved was a workshop providing warranty service in Apartadó, Antioquia, for 10 years.
- The economy of the profits was declining for various reasons. Then COVID-19 came and worsened the situation. After being affected three times with my health at risk of death the third time, a neighbor, brother of the person I rented from, unfortunately, couldn't overcome COVID-19.
- Seeing I was far from my family because I was single at the time, I only counted on the goodwill of a neighbor who helped me that third time I got COVID-19. Given this situation, I closed the workshop, making sure to clear all accounts with customers first.

**Learning to Play Electric Guitar**:
I have daily routines to learn to play a solo on the electric guitar from the song "Sweet Child o' Mine" by Guns N' Roses, played by the guitarist Slash. It’s quite a challenge as the solo includes several technical skills to develop, like speed, precision, finger strength, dexterity, hand synchronization, and auditory skills to make the different effects in each sound. I haven't mastered this routine yet and haven't moved past the most difficult part for me. I divided the solo into smaller parts to tackle and decided to start with the hardest part for me, and once I achieve this part steadily, I'll proceed with the other parts until I can play the entire solo on my electric guitar. I've been practicing it daily for 7 months, I can do it sometimes, but other times I make mistakes. It's not stable yet, and I don't feel secure and confident doing it. I continue to invest 15 minutes daily and occasionally half an hour or an hour once a week.

**Learning to Play Piano**:
But currently, I only play one song in this activity. I managed to play this song after 6 months. Now I only practice it by playing it 5 times and use it as a tool for practicing vocalization exercises. This song was quite a challenge. First, I started learning to use my right hand, which does the melodic picking of the song, and once I was somewhat stable with this skill, I started with my left hand, which accompanies the picking with chords. The process seemed impossible, but now it’s easier for me, and I can even play it without looking at the piano keyboard. The song is by Venezuelan singer Ricardo Montaner, called "A Whole New World," which was the soundtrack of Disney's movie "Aladdin." Nowadays, I only invest about 5 minutes to play it, those five times, because I’ve already learned to play it on the piano.

**Learning to Sing**:
Learning to sing is another of my daily routines. I dedicate 15 minutes to each of these activities without missing a day. If I miss a day, the next day I do the routine twice. My current difficulty is hitting the high notes in most of the songs I like. I dedicate 15 minutes daily and sometimes even more each day. I’m learning to sing the song "Wherever You Will Go" by the band The Calling. My goal is to be able to sing just one song, and that would be more than enough for me as a singer. Just that will fulfill my goal of being a singer, and this song is one of my favorites, which is why I chose it. I love the melody and the singer’s voice tone. The lyrics are somewhat nostalgic, a romantic rock-pop ballad.

**Learning to Speak English**:
My daily routine for learning to speak English, before going to bed, is to watch the YouTube channel "Learning English with Movies," which lasts on average 20 to 30 minutes. In addition to this, I sometimes invest more than 4 hours a day practicing on apps, taking virtual and conversational classes.
Then, I watch an episode of a series that interests me. So far, I’ve completed two series in English, the first was "Futurama," which is a comedy similar to "The Simpsons," and the second was "Friends," another comedy about a group of 6 friends. Now I’m watching the series "American Dad" from 2005, which is also very funny and in the comedy style. Each episode lasts about 30 minutes. Afterward, I turn off the TV and go to sleep.

**My Philosophy**:
My philosophy is to learn to do difficult things and make them easy to then maintain that level without investing much time. When I’m very stable at that level, I look to take another step with a new challenge that can make me even stronger in the skill of knowing how to do something very well. It’s a process of discipline that takes time to mature.

I usually wake up at 6 am, as long as I haven’t stayed up too late the previous night. Since I’m very committed to my process of learning to speak English, the first thing I do is take my phone and listen to an English news channel like Fox News, or listen to an English podcast on Spotify, or listen to an assignment I’m working on for an English class. I do this while still lying in bed.

Then, I do some stretching in bed, get up, take a shower, brush my teeth, dress up, leave my apartment and go to my mother’s house, which is next to my apartment. At my mother’s house, I do my daily Duolingo practice to improve my English again, which includes three tests: one to jump to a higher level, another to pass a lesson to gold level, and the third is to review and correct the mistakes I’ve made in the other two tests. I always start with the test to correct mistakes, then I try to jump the level, and finally, I do the part to pass a class to gold level. The condition to finish any test or exam is to make three mistakes. Of course, first I do the basic listening and pronunciation section, which is the shortest and takes me less than 5 minutes. With this practice, I ensure my daily streak on Duolingo. I have a streak of 683 days, which according to the app is part of the 12% of all users who are in the app, which is a lot because this app was the first and most popular for learning English worldwide.
I do all this while waiting for breakfast, sometimes my mother doesn’t make breakfast, we buy it from a neighbor, but at home, I usually have eggs with bread or slices of plantain plus a cup of coffee for breakfast.

**Favorite Food**:
- Rice (consumed daily)
- Eggs
- Beef
- Bandeja paisa
- Seafood casserole

**Cooking Skills**:
- I can cook rice
- I can cook eggs
- I can cook plantain slices
- I can cook meat
- I have cooked beans too, but I might have forgotten how, it’s been a long time since I last cooked, same with soups.
- But I’m not very fond of cooking.

**Pet**:

## Pets

- **Parrot named Paco (arrived accidentally 7 months ago)**

I currently have a pet: a small parrot we call Paco, and my mother is Paco's grandmother. I am Paco's uncle, and the rest of the family members have a similar relationship with the parakeet.

He arrived at our home by accident. First, he arrived at my sister's house, and Alexandra, my sister's daughter, my niece, wanted to keep him. But she really couldn't because she spends most of her time out studying. So, she gave him to my mother, and I live with my mother. Since then, 7 months ago, we've been living with Paco every day. He can't go without his apple, though he eats almost everything: yuca, potato, banana, any fruit. But yes, he's a bit noisy. Sometimes he makes noise more at some moments than at others.

We love him very much. We really like birds.

## Anecdotes

1. **At 15, biked with friends from Cartago to Pereira (2 hours one way, 3 hours return)**

**Anecdote:**

When I was 15 years old, I lived in Cartago for a while. Sometimes I used to ride bikes with my friends in the neighborhood and outside the neighborhood. There were about six of us on bikes. One time we rode to another city called Pereira. It took us two hours to go and three hours to come back. It was quite extreme at that age, as teenagers. We didn't tell our parents because they would have punished us. I remember this time in Cartago with gratitude. I liked it when it happened. My mother was the one who provided the money.

2. **Sold 3 heat stations for cell phone repair for 100,000 pesos but considered asking for more**

**Anecdote: dated 28/05/2024**

A neighbor who works as a cell phone repair technician asked me if I still had three heat stations for sale. I said yes. Then he asked, "How much will you sell them for?" I replied, "How much will you offer for them?" He said 100,000 pesos. So, I told him I would bring them to him the next day, and I did.

But I thought he offered too little and saw an opportunity to charge him 100,000 pesos and also ask for a second-hand cell phone in good condition. He agreed to give me the cell phone but only with 50,000 pesos, half of the 100,000 pesos. But I didn't accept his offer and went back home with the heat stations.

And here's where the funny part of the story begins, with my mother, who was very curious to know why I came back with the stations. I told her he was offering me half of what we agreed on plus a cell phone, and I didn't accept. I wanted the full 100,000 pesos plus the cell phone, but he didn't agree. I tried to be smarter than him, and that's where my mother, my own mother, started teasing me, saying I'm not the type of person to trick others with words.

It was positive teasing, but because I'm not much of an outgoing person, which is true, it was very funny because she couldn't stop laughing, which made me laugh too, and we laughed together.

But inside, I thought: my mother knows me and might think I made a bad deal because I'm not the type of person who can trick others with words. My tendency is more to be a good listener and not talk much. So, it was very funny that I tried to be that way, and of course, it was normal that I couldn't convince the other person to pay me the full 100,000 pesos plus a cell phone.

3. **Got a scar on the right wrist from being caught in the front wheel of a bicycle**

**Anecdote:**

I have a scar that is no longer very noticeable on my right wrist. I'll describe what happened. It was one of my teenage adventures in Cartago with one of my friends. We both went out on bikes to the nearest city called Zaragoza, about 30 minutes from the town where we were. That's the name of the town where my family lived at that time.

We decided to go to Apartado because there were bike tracks for jumping ramps. We had a lot of fun, and it got late for us to return. So, on the way back, I had my friend on the bike bar, and we decided to switch. It was my turn to ride on the bike bar while he pedaled. On the way, there was a hole he couldn't avoid, and at that moment, my hand got caught in the front wheel of the bike.

It was terrible because, besides being trapped, I couldn't free my hand, and it hurt a lot. We fell, but I couldn't free my hand. We had to walk the rest of the way with my hand trapped in the front wheel of the bike. Twenty minutes later, we arrived at the first house in town, and it was there that, with a tool, we managed to free the front wheel and release my hand. That's how I got the scar.

4. **Saved two girls from drowning in the sea (26/05/2024)**

**Anecdote: dated 26/05/2024**

My aunt Gloria came to visit us. She lives in another city, in Cartago, Valle del Cauca, but by plane, the distance is reduced to 45 minutes. She stayed with us for 25 days. 

And on 26/05/2024, as a farewell gift, three days before she was to return to her city where she lives with her daughter Leydi, my sister decided to give her a farewell gift by taking her to the beach with the whole family. The anecdote happened at the beach.

We were sharing and enjoying a lot as a family. We had already swum several times. After resting from lunch, which was a delicious fried fish with coconut rice, just remembering it makes my mouth water again. That lunch was very tasty.

So, I decided to go back into the sea, but since I don't often go to the sea, I intended to stay in the water for a long time, bathing and enjoying the scenery, enjoying the gentle waves. It's very fantastic.

And the amazing part of the anecdote is that there were three girls, and two of them were drowning. I saved them.

But at first, I didn't believe they were drowning until I asked them, "Are you serious?" That's when I could see their looks in more detail. And one of them spat out a bit of vomit and started crying. That's when I reacted very quickly and took the most scared one by the hand.

I managed to take her to a safer place where she could touch the ground and walk towards the sand. Then I went back for the other girl who was less scared. I took her by the hand and did the same. The third girl knew how to swim and was a bit taller, so she got out on her own. I felt very happy and grateful to God at that moment for allowing me to live that experience of doing good to another human being of that magnitude.

Another aspect that made my task easier was my height, where we were. The water level wasn't very high for me, and I could touch the ground. Otherwise, it would have been very difficult because I understand that a drowning person can drown another person trying to save them.

Thank God everything ended well, and with the following words from my mother: "Son, God wanted you to be here for that reason."

5. **Watched the movie AI in university psychology class and cried**

**Anecdote:**

I had an anecdote with my classmates at university. We were in a psychology class, and the professor decided to teach us about artificial intelligence through the movie "AI," where a mother with a son in a coma is assigned a robot son with artificial intelligence. 

And honestly, that movie seemed very dramatic and sad. I couldn't control my tears. I cried and laughed with my classmates at the same time. Wow, that's something I'll never forget.



