Someone once told me...

This component is going to be a mixture of the tenses seen previously, for example, simple present, present continuous, present perfect, present perfect continuous, simple past, past continuous, past perfect, past perfect continuous, future with "will", future with "going to", and future with "-ing".

Introducción
In order to transmit the information received from everyday and work situations, taking into account the functions and forms of language, it is important to consult and master reported speech, regular and irregular verbs and passive voice.

To evoke facts in line with characters or historical events that have already happened, it is necessary to keep in mind: simple past; and to talk about work, social and family life, it is essential to use phrasal verbs.

In this initial component, you will learn how to manage verb tenses in order to spontaneously narrate topics such as Let’s talk about my job, How I got the job, My interview (My interview) and My social and family life.

video

1. Verb Tenses (Present, Simple Past, Present Perfect, Present Perfect Continuous, Past Perfect)

In the English grammar, four types of present and four types of past are used. Each one of them will be explained in terms of function and structure. 
The following table mentions the structure of the present simple tense, present continuous, present perfect and present perfect continuous.


Simple Present

Verb + (-s / -es)

Often, the adverbs are used:

Always

Every day

Never

We use the simple present to describe actions that happen at the present moment.

Past Present Future


Present continuous

To be (am/is/are) + ing form

Adverbs often used:

Always

Never

Things happening at the moment of speaking.

Example:
I am washing all the dishes.

#

Present perfect

Have /has + past participle

Past

Present

Future

This tense expresses an event in the past with consequences in the present.

Often, adverbs are used:

Yet

Still

Already

Just

Since

For

Never

Ever

Example:

I have finished my homework.

#

Present perfect continuous

Have/has + been + -ing form

Describe actions that started in the past and have continued up to the present.

Example:
I have been doing my homework for 6 hours.
Yo he estado haciendo mi tarea por 6 horas
#

Here's the translation to English:

Past Simple

Verb + ed (or irregular verb)

Often, adverbs are used:

Often

Usually

Always

Never

The past simple describes actions without specifying a time that has already ended.

Past Present Future

Example:
I finished my work and went to the beach.

The following table mentions the structure of the past simple tense, past continuous, past perfect, and past perfect continuous

#
Past continuous

Was / Were + ing form

Often, the adverb is used:

While

Describe things that lasted some time.

Example:
I was doing my homework.

#

Past perfect

Had + past participle

This tense describes events that occurred in the middle of another event in the past or that happened in the past.

Often, the adverbs are used:

Already

Just

Still

Ever

Never

Example:

I had never seen something like that.

Yo nunca había visto algo así.

#

Past perfect continuous

Had + been + ing form

Describes actions that started in the past and continued until another point in the past.

Example:
I had been doing my homework.

#




Here we have a video class in which you will see three examples of each one of the tenses looking at the affirmative, negative, and interrogative forms./ Aquí tenemos una video clase en la que verá tres ejemplos de cada uno de los tiempos, con las formas afirmativa, negativa e interrogativa.
https://youtu.be/Lm0VekI9qmI


1.1 Reported speech (Estilo indirecto)

The reported speech is used to report something somebody has said. The only thing that must be considered is changing the tense.

In the following image, you will see how you need to change the tense when creating a reported speech:

Tabla 3 Changing the tense in reported speech

Change of the tense in reported speech
Original verb tense	In reported speech
Simple past	                Past perfect
Past continuous	                Past perfect continuous
Past perfect	                Past perfect
Past perfect continuous 	Past perfect continuous
Present simple	Past simple
Present continuous	Past continuous
Present perfect	Past perfect
Present perfect continuous	Past perfect continuous
Future with will	Would
Future with going to	Was/were going to


Now, please read and listen the diary Eliana writes and identify the reported speech in it.

Dear Diary,

Today was the day of my life, to start with, my teacher’s daughter told me she was doing great in school; then, my husband told me we would go to Florida in December; and finally, my trainer told me I had done a great job! I am so happy I gave my best!

told me she was doing great
told me we would
my trainer told me I had done


1.2 Verbos regulares e irregulares

The regular verbs are those that just need -ed to be formed in the second and third column. The irregular ones will not follow any pattern. Now, to be able to pronounce the verbs in -ed, we need to pay attention to the end:

Pronunciation of the regular verbs:

First example:

I needed to get a break.
He visited grandma to tell her how much he loved her.
I painted the fence.

In those previous example,s the -ed sounds /Id/


Second example:

I dreamed about her.
We catched a fish.

In those previous examples. the -ed sounds /d/

Third example:

We cooked a meal.
He stopped to smoke.

In those previous examples, the -ed sounds /t/

Let’s pronounce these 5 verbs:

1.Needed    2.Visited    3.Painted    4.Learned    5.Tended


1.3 Passive voice (Voz pasiva)
It may be that in previous courses we just worked with active voice, where the subject comes first, and it is really important; now, in this passive voice, we will see it is no longer mentioned or relevant.

Let’s see the examples:


Present

Gabriel writes Cien años de soledad.
Cien años de soledad is written by Gabriel.

Past

Gabriel wrote Cien años de soledad.
Cien años de soledad was written by Gabriel.


Future

Gabriel will write Cien años de soledad.
Cien años de soledad will be written by Gabriel.


Cesar: Did you see what happened?
Edith: Man, It was crazy!
Cesar: I could not believe my eyes when Arturo reacted!
Edith: Yeah, but it was understandable, the boss told him he had not worked enough, and we know he has been working like crazy.
Cesar: That was nuts!
Edith: Yeap, we know the boss is not fair.

Now complete the sentences using the right verb form: / Ahora complete las oraciones usando la forma correcta del verbo:




2
Phrasal verbs (Verbos frase)

Phrasal verbs are the combination of an already known verb with one or more words that eventually change its meaning. For instance, using them makes the speech a little bit more elegant and it shows the learner or speaker knows the language well. Let´s see some examples of phrasal verbs along with their pictures. To be able to learn them well, make sure you use them in context in your real life:

Phrasal verbs

Phrasal verbs son la combinación de un verbo ya conocido con una o más palabras que eventualmente cambian su significado.

come in

(Entrar)

The man came in when the woman told him to.
get in

(Ingresar)

The man got in with no problem.
get out

(Salir)

He got out to think.

pick up

(Levantar)

He picks up the trash.

put down

(Soltar)

She puts down the sand.


Pronunciation: now let’s read and pronounce / Pronunciación: ahora leamos y pronunciemos

The idea is having a coffee before you leave, please come in.
We are driving towards Melgar and we are running late, please get in.
I am mopping the floor, so you and your dog need to get out.
He is picking up his trash on his own! I am so proud of him!
The cat is not happy with you holding him up.



Pronunciation: now let’s read and pronounce / Pronunciación: ahora leamos y pronunciemos

The idea is having a coffee before you leave, please come in.
We are driving towards Melgar and we are running late, please get in.
I am mopping the floor, so you and your dog need to get out.
He is picking up his trash on his own! I am so proud of him!
The cat is not happy with you holding him up.


For practicing "speaking", remember to use digital tools from your phone or by web, like:

Record voice
Voice to text

https://vocaroo.com/ or https://online-voice-recorder.com/es/
https://dictation.io/speech or https://speechnotes.co/es/


3
Let's talk about my job (Hablemos de mi trabajo)


To be able to describe and talk about situations in the job, it is necessary to know not only tenses but also the grammar and vocabulary needed to be able to deliver the idea accurately. When asking for a job, your job will start with applying for the job through a CV and then going to an interview, and finally, signing a contract.

Bear in mind there are some useful tips you will be able to accomplish easily if you know what to say and how to say it.

Let’s look at the job some people do, where they do it and what tools they need to accomplish the task well:

Job and profession

I am a pilot.

I work in an airport.

I need a plane to fly passengers from one place to another.

She is a nurse.

She works in a hospital.

She needs medicine to give to her patients.
She is a teacher.

She works in a school.

She needs a board and some markers to teach.



3.1 How I got the job (Cómo me dieron el empleo)
alt
Most of the jobs are the result of a big effort since studying the job well, reviewing information about the company, writing a great curriculum vitae, dressing up well and answering the questions accurately. Listen to this interview and identify the main topics. 

Listen to the job interview to practice and improve your listening skills:


Interviewer: Hello, Maria. Thanks for coming to the interview.
Maria: No problem.

Interviewer: Well, as you know, the company needs someone to lead the company.
Maria: Yes, that´s the reason I am here.

Interviewer: That sounds great. Please tell me what you've been doing over the past four years or so.
Maria: Well, in my first job, four years ago, I was working for a small HR services provider, but now I am looking for a little more stability.

Interviewer: Well, that all sounds good. Can you talk about your qualifications?
Maria: Yes, I got a diploma two years ago. I am also currently working on a further diploma in psychology, with a specific focus on learning and performance management.

Interviewer: Very good. Well, it looks like you have the qualifications and experience we're looking for.

3.2 My interview (Mi entrevista)
Following the previous topics seen, we are going to see about some tips needed to present great interviews taking into account the vocabulary and the grammar seen. Please, check the unknown vocabulary and try to relate it to the complete sentences:


https://youtu.be/DBNVA2wv_iA

3.3 My social and family life (Mi vida social y familiar)
To talk about personal and social life, It is important to know and understand some events that are key during the life, example: getting married, having children, graduating, moving, starting a relationship, getting divorced, buying a property, etc.

Here is the vocabulary that you can work. Read and listen to some personal and social events along with the date: 


I started to study in 1991.

I graduated from elementary school in 1995.

I went to high school in 1996.

I graduated from high school in 2001.

I studied my career in the university until 2006. 

In 2006, I went to live on my own.

In 2008, I got married.

In 2012, I had my first baby

Here is a conversation in which you will listen to Cesar’s life in the university. Listen and complete:



Arrastrar y Soltar
Life in the university / La vida en la universidad
Karla
Do you remember when we ___met  in the university?
Rob
Yes, I do. I remember we met in German ___class
.
Karla
___Wasn’t it in Lengua Materna?
Rob

No, It wasn’t. Do you remember we ___had a friend studying German with us? Her name was Carolina.
Karla
Yes, I ___ do. Carolina Acevedo!













