Componente formativo: I was wondering if... / Me preguntaba si...

I was wondering if...

This component will be the introduction to the study of different types of texts. Verb tenses will be combined, and some readings on the topics of employment and social life will be reviewed. We will work on the characteristics and differences of types of texts (descriptive, expository, and journalistic), reading comprehension techniques (scanning and skimming), and written communications (emails and documents). Discourse markers and something related to formal questions will also be studied.


Development of content
I Introduction                                          View content    
1 Types of texts (Tipos de texto)                       View content
2 Linkers (Conectores)                                  View content 
3 Let's talk about job (Hablemos de empleo)             View content
Summary							View content


Digital Educational Resources Ecosystem
SENA - COLOMBIA
This material can be distributed, copied, and exhibited by third parties if it is shown in the credits. No commercial benefit can be obtained, and derivative works must be under the same license terms as the original work.

Base v6.3.0 - Package v5.3.0

Introduction
To carry out a good reading comprehension, it is essential to know the types of texts and the grammar that each one contains; for this task, it will be important to know the connectors, some vocabulary, and, of course, the formal and informal questions. We invite you to take a detailed tour of this component and to take careful note of what is not familiar to you.



https://youtu.be/O4QXG_MsZQs

Types of texts (Tipos de texto)

The types of texts are descriptive, expository and journalistic. In a descriptive text, the writer needs to make the reader dream about a person, place, or object. In the majority of descriptive essays, there is a detailed description, it sometimes has the feelings or perceptions of the writer.

Descriptive text:

A descriptive text is a text that explains what a person, place, or thing is like, often providing a visual experience using adjectives and adverbs.


My favorite animal is the penguin, because when a penguin walks is very funny and cute.
Penguins are birds and, although they cannot fly, they can swim very well.
Their bodies are black, white, and have a yellow neck. 

Expository texts:

Expository texts, or informational texts, are non-fiction texts that give facts and information about a topic. These academic texts are common in subjects such as science, history, and social sciences. There are numerous examples of expository texts, that include textbooks for school children, recipes, content on current affairs, and pamphlets on monuments and places. 

Journalistic texts:

Journalistic writing is a form of non-fiction writing used to report news and factual events. It can be newspaper articles, television reports, radio scripts, and on news websites. As it is written to inform, journalistic writing usually consists of short sentences and paragraphs that get to the point of the article quickly.


To sum up, there are 5 tips to be able to write a great text, whether it is descriptive, expository, or journalistic.

1. Write the events in order, in a coherent way.
2. Use words or phrases that aren’t literal.
3. Use strong verbs.
4. Use sensory details, like the smell of something, to help the readers to make an image of something.
5. Think before writing, create a map of ideas.


Now, you will have the opportunity to practice reading texts and match them with an image that exemplifies the narration. Keep in mind that in all cases you must identify the purpose of the text, the noun of the sentence, the adverbs used to describe actions, and/or the adjectives that describe the noun, respectively. If there is unknown vocabulary, please write it and make sure to learn it through permanent use.


The sunset

The sunset filled the entire sky with the deep color of rubies, setting the clouds ablaze.

The waves crashed

The waves crashed and danced along the shore, moving up and down in a graceful and gentle rhythm like they were dancing.

The painting

The painting was a field of flowers, with deep and rich blues and yellows atop vibrant green stems that seemed to beckon you to reach right in and pick them.

The old man

The old man was stooped and bent, his back making the shape of a C and his head bent so far forward that his beard would nearly have touched his knobby knees had he been just a bit taller.

Soulful blue eyes

His deep and soulful blue eyes were like the color of the ocean on the clearest day you can ever imagine.

The soft fur

The soft fur of the dog felt like silk against my skin and her black coloring glistened as it absorbed the sunlight, reflecting it back as a perfect, deep, dark mirror.

You can use adjectives to say a lot of different things. Thanks to adjectives, you can tell someone that you had an amazing birthday or that you ate a delicious meal. You can use adjectives to talk about your exciting vacation, your favorite movie, or even your little dog. Adjectives come in many different shapes and sizes, but many of them have something in common: they are used to describe people, places, and things. There are many types of adjectives, but descriptive adjectives are the ones you need when you want to describe something.

Now, try to study these flashcards of the descriptive adjectives which can be useful to create descriptions while practicing definitions instead of meanings.

Aloof / The opposite to friendly

Agreeable Placentero

Adorable Adorable

Adventurous Aventurero

Alive Vivo

Amused Divertido

Angry Malgeniado

Tasty Sabroso

Risky Riesgoso

Clumsy Torpe

1.1 Verb tenses (Tiempos verbales)


Verb tenses are verb forms (visit, visited, will visit) which English speakers use to talk about the past, present, and future in their language. There are twelve verb tense forms in English. For English students, knowing how to use English tenses can be quite a challenge. Let’s get started!

The “present simple” is used to express habits and routines, general facts, repeated actions or situations, emotions, and permanent desires:

I do exercise. (habit)
I work in California. (permanence)
London is a big city. (general fact)

To give instructions or directions:
You walk two blocks, then turn left.
To talk about arranged, present or future events:
Your class starts at 07.00.

To refer to the future, behind some conjunctions:
He’ll give it to you when you come next Monday.

She eats lunch at 12:00 every Monday.

Past simple

As It has been said before, the past simple is a verb tense that expresses situations or actions that occurred in the past, and although they can be from the recent past or the distant past, their duration is not important; It should only be understood that these have already ended. Here are some examples to figure this out.

She had an exam. 

They were worried.


Simple future

The simple future refers to a time after the present and expresses facts or certainties. The future simple is used: to predict a future event, to express a spontaneous decision, to express will or willingness to do something.

To be able to put into practice the verb tenses (present, past, and future) studied before, please, read the following text and practice thinking the correct verb. 

Cultural behaviour in business

Much of today's business is conducted across international borders, and while the majority of the global business community might share the use of English as a common language, the nuances and expectations of business communication might differ greatly from culture to culture. A lack of understanding of the cultural norms and practices of our business acquaintances can result in unfair judgements, misunderstandings, and breakdowns in communication. Here are three basic areas of differences in the business etiquette around the world that could help stand you in good stead when you next find yourself working with someone from a different culture.


Addressing someone.

When discussing this topic in a training course, a German trainee and a British trainee (get) - - - -

into a hot debate about whether it (is) - - - -

appropriate for someone with a doctorate to use the corresponding title on their business card. The British trainee maintained that anyone who wasn’t a medical doctor expecting to be addressed as ‘Dr’ was disgustingly pompous and full of themselves. The German trainee, however, (argue) - - - -

that the hard work and years of education put into earning that PhD should give them full rights to expect to be addressed as ‘Dr’.

This stark difference in opinion over something that could be conceived as minor and thus easily overlooked goes to show that we often attach meaning to even the most mundane practices. When things that we are used to are done differently, it could spark the strongest reactions in us. While many Continental Europeans and Latin Americans prefer to be addressed with a title, for example Mr. or Ms. and their surname when meeting someone in a business context for the first time, Americans, and increasingly the British, now tend to prefer using their first names. The best thing to do is to listen and (observe) - - - -

how your conversation partner addresses you and, if you are still unsure, do not be afraid to ask them how they would like to be addressed.

Smiling

A famous Russian proverb (state) - - - -

that ‘a smile without reason is a sign of idiocy’ and a so-called ‘smile of respect’ is seen as insincere and often regarded with suspicion in Russia. Yet in countries like the United States, Australia and Britain, smiling is often interpreted as a sign of openness, friendship and respect, and is frequently used to break the ice.

In a piece of research done on smiles across cultures, the researchers found that smiling individuals were considered more intelligent than non-smiling people in countries such as Germany, Switzerland, China and Malaysia. However, in countries like Russia, Japan, South Korea and Iran, pictures of smiling faces were rated as less intelligent than the non-smiling ones. Meanwhile, in countries like India, Argentina and the Maldives, smiling (be) - - - -

In a piece of research done on smiles across cultures, the researchers found that smiling individuals were considered more intelligent than non-smiling people in countries such as Germany, Switzerland, China and Malaysia. However, in countries like Russia, Japan, South Korea and Iran, pictures of smiling faces were rated as less intelligent than the non-smiling ones. Meanwhile, in countries like India, Argentina and the Maldives, smiling (be)- - - -

associated with dishonesty.

Eye contact

An American or British person might be looking their client in the eye to show that they are paying full attention to what is being said, but if that client is from Japan or Korea, they (find)- - - -



Having an increased awareness of the possible differences in expectations and behaviour (help) - - - -

us avoid cases of miscommunication, but it (be) - - - -

vital that we also remember that cultural stereotypes can be detrimental to building good business relationships. Although national cultures (play) - - - -

Having an increased awareness of the possible differences in expectations and behaviour (help)- - - -

us avoid cases of miscommunication, but it (be)- - - -

vital that we also remember that cultural stereotypes can be detrimental to building good business relationships. Although national cultures (play)- - - -

a part in shaping the way we behave and think, we are also largely influenced by the region we come from, the communities we associate with, our age and gender, our corporate culture and our individual experiences of the world. The knowledge of the potential differences should therefore be something we keep at the back of our minds, rather than something that we use to pigeonhole the individuals of an entire nation.

Now read again and check the answers.

Diccionario / Dictionary

If you want to check the meaning and pronunciation of the vocabulary provided in the text, you can make use of online tools such as 

Enlace web. Linguee

Enlace web. Wordreference 

1.2 Irregular verbs (Verbos irregulares)

Irregular verbs in English are those whose conjugation is not done with ed at the end in past and participle forms. For this reason, to conjugate this type of verbs, it is necessary to know them by heart.

The importance of mastering irregular verbs is that without them there is no communication.

It should be noted that irregular verbs fulfill the same functions as regular verbs, that is, to express states or actions, and are located within the sentence in the same position as regular verbs.


Verb	Past	Translation
Do/Does	Did	Hacer
Drink	Drank	Beber
Eat	Ate	Comer
Feel	Felt	Sentir

Now, let's see the examples:

I did homework yesterday.
My sister drank wine.
I ate potatoes for lunch.
I felt silly.

Now let's use the tenses in simple sentences which are placed in the following cards; pay attention to the structure, for instance, if it is a simple sentence (subject and verb), or past simple sentences (subject and verb in past), or future tense (subject and will and verb):

Regular verbs

I visit him.
I visited him.
I will visit him.
Irregular verbs

I go to work.
I went to work.
I have gone to work.

Regular

Verb + ed
Dance – Danced
Irregular

Verbs list
Sing - Sang


Regular and irregular verbs have the same function.

Example:
She had a great vacation.
She visited the beach. 

Interrogative and negative use auxiliar Did

She did not visit the beach

Did she have a great vacation?

Use: to express habits or routines in present perfect.

Example:
Samuel has written a book.
Samuel has visited his grandpa.
Has / Have + Verb past participle

Activity that started in the past and continues to the present
Past Present Future


Use: for future simple.

Example:
You will come.
You will learn.
Predictions

Future events

+ You will come
Resolutions

WILL

Will you come?
Promises

Snap decisions

- You won’t come


To keep on working with the mixed sentences, listen to the song It’s Time by Imagine Dragons and identify the tenses, the sentence structure and the meaning of it taking into account the context. If you want to google it, it’s ok or just follow the link and identify the regular and irregular verbs:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sENM2wA_FTg


Now listen again and check the verbs 

1.3 Reading comprehension (Comprensión de lectura) 

There are several comprehension strategies we use every day and, by using them, we can become experts in that field. Anyhow, it is a great idea to know how to promote reading comprehension in case of not having that ability.

What is the skimming technique?
This method of study is used to extract the most important ideas from a text. For instance, we will go directly to the first and last paragraphs, as well as to the titles, subtitles, and epigraphs of each section, analyzing the structure of the content to be developed.

That is, we have to quickly obtain a general idea of the concepts, dates, and data. To do this, without delving into the message, we will identify them dynamically throughout the text. With the skimming method the reading speed increases up to four times. Of course, to handle it with ease requires a lot of practice.

Remember that, although it provides a global image, it reduces reading comprehension, so it is not useful for an in-depth study. Of course, it serves to analyze contexts and review.


Extract the ideas from text
Note. Skimming is used to extract the most important ideas from a text.

2 Linkers (Conectores)

They are words used to connect similar elements in a sentence. There are different connectors in English that can be used for expressing thoughts in a better way. To be able to work with them wisely, the most important tip will be to learn their function. Smart use of linkers can omit the requirement of single sentences and help in connecting the sentence in a more logical way.

Here you will not only know the various kinds of sentence connectors, but will also get simple linker examples that will help you in understanding the meaning of connectors. So, let´s begin:


Time
I get up at 9:00. Then, I get dressed. After that, I have breakfast. Next, I go to work.
Later
After
Before
Then
Next
Soon
Finally


Addition
My sister Mary is 20 and my sister Jane is 25.

I like flying very much. My brother Jake likes flying, too. So does my brother Jake.
As well as
Further
So
And
Too
Furthermore
Also


Contrast
Our teacher is sometimes very strict with us, but she is very patient to explain all the new things we learn.

Although a flat is easier to clean, I prefer living in a big house.
But
However
On the other hand
Otherwise
Unlike
Conversely
Although


Order of elements
I think they have been very unfair to her.
Firstly, because I consider her the best typist in the world.

Secondly, because she has worked very hard to get the job.
First of all
Firstly
Secondly
Then
After that
The next stage
lastly


Cause
I didn’t tell you this because I didn’t know about it yet.
Because
As
Seeing that
Since
Due to
On account of
Owing to


Giving examples
There are different kinds of films, for example, horror films, westerns, romantic films…

I always dress in a causal way, but sometimes I have to dress smartly, for instance, when I have an important meeting at the office.
For example
For instance
Such as
In this case
For one thing
In others words
Illustared by

Consequence
I enjoy going shopping when I finish work, and in this area there are hardly any shops, so I have bought a flat in the centre of town.
So
Thus
Consequently
As a result
That’s why
Therfore
By

After knowing what the linkers are and having quoted examples, let’s listen to the conversation and see the use of some of them:


Arrastrar y Soltar
Excercise adverbs of degree
Diana
I cannot believe we are going to Colombia!
Carla
That’s
we must pick him up.
Diana
We must
pick him up, but also see our families.
Carla
, Martin does not want to go with us.
Arrastra y suelta cada una de las palabras en el orden correcto.
because
not only
On the other hand

I cannot believe we are going to Colombia!
Carla
That’s because
we must pick him up.
Diana
We must not only
pick him up, but also see our families.
Carla
On the other hand
, Martin does not want to go with us.



Actividad Didáctica
Texto que describa la imagen
Conectors

Escuche los audios y complete los espacios en blanco de cada una de las frases arrastrando el término correcto.

Arrastrar y soltar


Well done, you've done a fantastic job so far.
Which book talks how we can continue to make things even better?                                  The Great Surge
Which book covers a long period of human history?                                                 The Rational Optimist
Which book claims that human intuition negatively affects the way people think about the world?   Factfulness
Which book explains that we tend to mentally divide humans into two clear groups?                 Enlightenment Now


3 Let’s talk about job (Hablemos de empleo)

Having a job makes part of the adult's world as some people calls it. In some countries, we can start working before 18 years old; in some others, after 21 years old. Some people were born in a family that runs a business and some others just work in farms growing fruits and vegetables or taking care of the animals. In Colombia, the salaries are not enough, in some cases, to run a family, so more than one member must join the labour world.

After knowing how important having a job is, you are invited, as a learner, to see this video class and learn the vocabulary needed when talking about a job.

https://youtu.be/76EKR8lFuLw

3.1 Interviews (Entrevistas)

What’s a visa?: a citizen of a foreign country seeking another country, like the United States, must generally first obtain a US visa, which is placed in the traveler’s passport, a travel document issued by the country of which he or she is a citizen. Certain international travelers can visit the United States without a visa if they meet the requirements for visa-free travel. Let’s see the types of questions you may prepare before having that type of interview:

Now, listen to the following interview and try to answer what is asked: 


English does work - level 8
I was wondering if / Me preguntaba si…
US Visitor Visa Interview
No matter the Visa you are applying for, the questions that you will be asked at the beginning of the
interview with the consular officer will be the same. Usually, the consular officer starts the
conversation by commenting something on the weather, the rush hour in the morning, or the long
queue at the embassy. That is because they want you to feel comfortable and make you feel less
nervous or stressed.
Do you have relatives or friends currently in the US?
Where will you be residing in the United States?
What is the reason for traveling at this particular time?
How long will you be staying in the US?
Why do you plan to stay so long, can you stay shorter?
Who will you be traveling with?
Have you booked your tickets?
How much do you think your stay in the US will cost you?
What do you do for a living? How much do you earn?
How will you be financing your trip? Who is your sponsor?
Are you married? Do you have children? Do you have pets? Who will take care of them while you are
away?
Who will take care of your house/property/children/pets while you are away?
Do you have any intention on remaining in the US?
How can you assure me that you will return to your home country?
Have all documents in your hands, nicely arranged and in order. Hand to the interviewer
every document that he asks for, following by explanations if you see it necessary. The
commonly asked questions for US Visitor visa interview are the following:
These type of questions were taken from:
US Visitor Visa Interview - B1 B2 Visa Interview Questions. (2022).
https://visaguide.world/us-visa/nonimmigrant/visitor/interview

3.2 Important questions (Preguntas relevantes)

When participating in conversations, it is key to know how to talk about me, my skills, my abilities and desires. Initially, the questions somebody can pop would be orientated to discover who you are, your likes and dislikes. Every single answer can orientate the listener towards your goals and expectations. Here are some examples: 

How would you describe yourself? ¿Cómo se describiría a usted mismo?
What are your strengths? ¿Cuáles son sus fortalezas?
What are your weaknesses? ¿Cuáles son sus debilidades?
Why did you leave your last job? ¿Por qué dejó su último trabajo?
What do you do in your current role? ¿A qué se dedica en su cargo actual?
Why would you like to work here? ¿Por qué le gustaría trabajar aquí?
When could you start? ¿Cuándo podría empezar?
What kind of salary are you expecting? ¿Qué tipo de salario espera?
Do you have any questions for me? ¿Tiene alguna pregunta para mí?

More important than answering fast is giving the information requested. Please, read the questions and make sure you plan answers according to your real life. 


Next, listen to the following dialogue, in which the topic that has been studied is applied. 


Arrastrar y Soltar
Job interview
Personal manager
Hi, Mark. Thanks for coming today. I’m Linda Smith. Nice to meet you.
Candidate
Hello. I’m Mark Turner. Nice to meet
you, too.
Personal manager
Have you read
the information about this job?
Candidate
Yes, it sounds
very interesting.





























































