Introduction

We welcome you to the training component called "Things that were done," in which topics such as reported speech, affirmative, negative, and interrogative structures, and work routines are developed. This will provide knowledge of the ideal way to learn a second language. Let's start with the following information:

https://youtu.be/x8fd26PBfHw

In order to transmit the information received in daily and work situations, taking into account the functions and forms of the language, it is important to consult and master the reported speech, the different verb tenses, and, of course, the related vocabulary.
To communicate in English and discuss the activities of daily life with our friends and family, it is essential to have a large vocabulary.
In this component, you will learn how to manage verb tenses to spontaneously narrate topics such as “Let's talk about the work and social routines I used to have.”


1 Reported speech - direct (Reporte de frases - directo)

The reported speech is used to report something somebody has said, it can be done in two different ways, the first one is called direct and it implies we must say what the speaker said in highlights. That sentence does not suffer any change, so the only thing that needs to be added is the expression somebody said, somebody told...

Figura 1. Reported speech direct
Direct speech is a representation of the real words someone said; it usually has a reporting verb in the past simple and the most common reporting verb is “said”. The reporting clause may come first or second. Let's practice with some examples:

I am hungry.

Tengo hambre.

Reported

He said “I am hungry”.

Él dijo "tengo hambre".


I don't like Peter.

No me gusta Peter.

Reported

She said “I don’t like Peter”.

Ella dijo "no me gusta Peter".

My dog comes with me.

Mi perro viene conmigo.

Reported

He said “my dog comes with me”.

Él dijo "mi perro viene conmigo"

Now we are going to read this text in which direct speech is used. Bear in mind that in all circumstances, as we said before, it is important to keep the highlights and the words as the speaker spoke. Do not change the tense of the verb nor the pronoun:

A terrible situation with my sister!

I remember when my sister lost her job, she said: “I do not know what to do” and I said: “we are going to find something to do”. That was when the business started.

At the beginning, a bunch of ideas came to my mind. I wanted to have a café but that was not a choice, as my mom says: a business like a restaurant or related to food needs too much time”. Then it came to my mind the idea of opening a language center and I said to myself: “I am going to do it” and that was when the difficult times came.

At the beginning, we had to do every single task, we did not have time, and there was no chance to hire someone because there was no money. My sister used to repeat: “There is no money”.

Now, let's answer some questions, based on the story. Try to write in your notebook the correct answer and then check: / Ahora, respondamos algunas preguntas, con base en la historia. Trate de escribir en su cuaderno la respuesta correcta y luego verifique:


When the sister said “I do not know what to do”, what did she mean?	When the person who writes the story said: “we are going to find something to do”, what happened?
a. She was lost.	a. A new business started.
b. She was fired.	b. They closed the previous store.
c. She did not know where to live.	c. A new written project began.
d. She had money.	d. The mobile rang.
Click to check the correct answers

When the sister said “I do not know what to do”, what did she mean?
b. She was fired.

When the person who writes the story said: “we are going to find something to do”, what happened?
a. A new business started.

1.1 Job (Empleo)
To talk about jobs, it is important to know the name of the job, the meaning of it along with the place and the activity the person does. Please, see how the meaning is articulated in here:


Job

What do they do?

Where do they work?

He said: “I work in the office”

Accountants

Look after the finances in an organization.

They work in an office.

He said: “I look after finances.”

Bakers

Bake bread.

They work in a bakery.

He said: “I bake bread.”


Barbers

Shave men's beards and cut men's hair.

They work in a barber shop.

He said: “I shave people’s beards.”



Barmen/women

Serve drinks.

They work in a bar, pub or restaurant.

He said: “I serve drinks.”


Butchers

Prepare and sell meat.

They work in a butcher’s shop.

He said: “I sell meat.”


Chambermaids

Clean and tidy rooms.

They work in a hotel.

They said: “We work in hotels”


Fishmongers

Prepare and sell fish.

They work in rivers.

They said: “We work in rivers selling fish”



Trying to continue working with the direct speech and the vocabulary learned about jobs, please, see the images and read the sentences to be able to select one of the options that shows the direct speech.


A male dancer said after the show they danced with two girls.	He says he always does his homework.
a. They said they danced with two girls.	a. A student said: "I always do my homework."
b. We said we danced with two girls.	b. A student said: "They always do my homework."
c. We danced with two girls.	c. A student said: "She always does my homework."
d. He said: "We danced with two girls."	d. A student said: "I always did my homework."

A male dancer said after the show they danced with two girls.
d. He said: "We danced with two girls."

He says he always does his homework.
a. A student said: "I always do my homework."


1.2 Affirmative, negative, and interrogative structures (Estructuras afirmativas, negativas e interrogativas)
We can report every single thing somebody says, we just need to identify whether that is a question, an affirmative or a negative sentence. In the following examples, we are going to see how to report every single speech.
Look at the examples and the changes that need to be done. Also, take into account that if it is direct speech, just write it down with highlights. The following verbs can be used: advised, assured, convinced, informed, notified, persuaded, promised, reassured, reminded, and warned:


Sam said: “I do not have any homework”.

Sam asked: “Do we have any homework?”.

Sam denied: “I do not have any homework”.


Elisa: “It is time to work”.

Affirmative: Elisa assured: “It is time to work”.

Negative: Elisa denied: “It is not time to work”.

Question: Elisa asked: “Is it time to work?”.



Teacher: “You are ok”.

Affirmative: Teacher said: “You are ok”.

Negative: Teacher denied: “You are not ok”.

Question: Teacher asked: “Are you ok?”.

Now listen and complete with the missing words. Ahora escuche y complete con las palabras faltantes.


Escuche los audios y complete los espacios en blanco de cada una de las frases arrastrando el término correcto.


Direct speech
Peter
She says: "I am
ill".
Laura
"I will study
", said Mary.
Joseph
She said: "The exam
is difficult".
Charlie
They said: "They have taken
exercise".
Ivy
She said: "They have not eaten
their meals".
Sally
He said: "Do you agree
with me?"


2 Verb tenses (Tiempos verbales)
A verb tense shows a time reference, or when and how a verb occurred. We conjugate verbs differently depending on the verb tense and the time reference we need to explain. When reporting an action, it is mandatory to know the verb tense of the sentence that was said originally.
There are in total 12 English verb tenses. Simple definitions and examples of the different sentences can help you make sense of using verbs properly. So listen and read:

Tabla 1. Verb tenses


VERBS TENSES CONSIDERING PAST, PRESENT, AND FUTURE
ENGLISH VERB TENSE	PAST	PRESENT	FUTURE
SIMPLE	I worked there in 1990.	I work in a factory.	I will work when I turn 18.
CONTINUOUS	I was working when you came.	I am working right now.	I will be working in December.
PERFECT	I had worked with him before.	I have worked on several projects.	I will have worked on that by the time you get here.
PERFECT CONTINUOUS	I had been working with him for a long time.	I have been working on several projects.	I will have been working with several people in 2028

The three main verb tenses can each be further broken down to include the four aspects of verb tenses: simple, progressive, perfect, and perfect progressive:

    1. Simple tenses are the basic versions of past, present, and future tense verbs. They describe either one event or all events of one action.
    2. Progressive tenses discuss an ongoing (or progressing) action.
    3. Perfect tenses discuss a future action that will be completed (or perfected).
    4. Perfect progressive tenses discuss a future action that will be ongoing.

Now check each tense and then practice:

Let's look at the present simple, continuous, perfect, and perfect continuous. You will find other names for it but, in general terms, you will need to pay attention to four possibilities as the image shows. Remember the function of each tense as it has been seen in previous English courses and contents.
English verb tense	Present
Simple	I work in a Factory.
Continuous	I am working right now.
Perfect	I have worked on several projects.
Perfect continuous	I have been working on several projects.

Let's look at the past simple, continuous, perfect, and perfect continuous. You will find other names for it but, in general terms, you will need to pay attention to four possibilities as the image shows. Remember the function of each tense as it has been seen in previous English courses and contents.
English verb tense	Past
Simple	I worked there in 1990.
Continuous	I was working when you came.
Perfect	I had worked with him before.
Perfect continuous	I had been working with him for a long time.

Let's look at the future simple, continuous, perfect, and perfect continuous. You will find other names for it but, in general terms, you will need to pay attention to four possibilities as the image shows. Remember the function of each tense as it has been seen in previous English courses and contents.
English verb tense	Future
Simple	I will work when I turn 18.
Continuous	I will be working in December.
Perfect	I will have worked on that by the time you get here.
Perfect continuous	I will have been working with several people in 2028.

After seeing the tenses in detail, on your notebook, put the correct answer, then check:

Después de ver los tiempos en detalle, en su cuaderno, coloque la respuesta correcta y verifique:
The doctor said: “I have been working there for years.”	She said: “I will work.”	They said: “I will have been walking around the store.”
a. Past perfect	a. Simple future	a. Future perfect progressive
b. Present perfect progressive	b. Perfect progressive	b. Present perfect progressive
Click to check the correct answers


The doctor said: “I have been working there for years.”
b. Present perfect progressive

She said: “I will work.”
a. Simple future

They said: “I will have been walking around the store.”
a. Future perfect progressive


3
Reported speech - indirect (Reporte de frases - indirecto)
Indirect speech focuses more on the content of what someone said rather than their exact words. In indirect speech, the structure of the reported clause depends on whether the speaker is reporting a statement, a question, or a command. First, check the next video, then check the chart:
https://youtu.be/K3B4LsxubB0


Tabla 2. Direct and indirect speech




	Direct	Indirect	Reported clause
Statement	‘I’m tired’, I said.	I told them (that) I was tired.	that-clause
Question	

‘Are you ready?’, the nurse asked Joel.

‘Who are you?’, she asked.
	

The nurse asked Joel if/whether he was ready.

She asked me who I was.
	

if-clause/whether-clause

wh-clause
Command	‘Leave at once!’, they ordered.	They ordered us to leave at once.	to-infinitive clause


According to the direct reported speech, we have two reports for statements and questions. Listen and read:

Indirect reporting statements
Indirect reporting of statements consists of a reporting clause and a that-clause:

    • The pilot commented that the weather had been extremely bad as the plane came in to land. (The pilot’s words were: ‘The weather was extremely bad as the plane came in to land.’)
    • I told my wife I didn’t want a party on my 50th birthday. (that-clause without that) (or I told my wife that I didn’t want a party on my 50th birthday.)

Indirect speech: reporting questions
Reporting yes-no questions and alternative questions.
Indirect reports of yes-no questions and questions with or consist of a reporting clause and a reported clause introduced by if or whether. If is more common than whether. The reported clause is in statement form (subject & verb), not question form:

    • She asked if I was Scottish. (original yes-no question: ‘Are you Scottish?’)
    • The waiter asked whether we wanted a table near the window. (original yes-no question: ‘Do you want a table near the window?’)
    • He asked me if I had come by train or by bus. (original alternative question: ‘Did you come by train or by bus?’)


Let’s practice: speaking
Ask your partner the following questions making sure to take good notes. After you have finished the questions, find a new partner and report what you have learned about your first partner using reported speech.

    What is your favorite sport and how long have you been playing/doing it?

    What kind of music do you like? Have you always listened to that kind of music?

    What did you use to do when you were younger that you don't do anymore?

    What were you doing yesterday at this time?

    Which two promises will you make concerning learning English?

Remember to use different virtual channels, such as Messenger, WhatsApp, Telegram, or if you have the possibility to practice with a member of your family or a friend, it will be nice. ¡Let's do it!


4 Let's talk about the work and social routines I used to have (Hablemos de las rutinas laborales y sociales que solía tener)


When we use expressions to talk about routines or repeated actions in the past which we don't do in the present or we talk about states in the past which are no longer true, it is necessary to refer to “used to”:


I used to have long hair (but now I have short hair).

She used to smoke (but now she doesn't smoke).

They used to live in Medellin (but now they live in Bogota).

We use used to + infinitive to talk about a past situation that is no longer true. It tells us that there was a repeated action or state in the past which has now changed. So check the grammar: / Usamos used to + infinitivo para hablar de una situación pasada que ya no es cierta. Nos dice que hubo una acción o estado repetido en el pasado que ahora ha cambiado. Así que revise la gramática:


Used to + infinitive and be/get used to + -ing look similar but they have very different uses. / Used to + infinitivo y be/get used to + -ing parecen similares pero tienen usos muy diferentes.

For example:

She used to work in a bank but she left and got a job as a gardener.

When we were at university, we used to have to write an essay a week.

Let’s watch the next video. Listen, practice, and remember: / Observe el siguiente video. Escuche, practique y recuerde.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hQZcRq22IFw&feature=youtu.be


Now, we are going to practice. Listen each audio and complete:

Used to
Joseph
Are you coming to the party
?
Isa
No, I have
to work.
Joseph
Work! What happened? You used to never miss a party!
Isa
True, but I also didn’t use to have a stressful job.
Joseph
Yeah, and you used
to be poor - but you were fun!
Isa
Yep! I used to be fun!

