Intro

Tell me about yourself.

How do you feel when I ask you this question?

How do you feel about responding it?

Are you confident and excited, or are you more likely to be nervous and get stuck?

This isn't just the most common question on job interviews.

It's also one of the most important things

you need to be able to do when learning English.

Presenting yourself.

And in this video, I'm going to teach you how to do that.

Let's go.

Now, whether you wanna apply for a great job, apply for a visa to live abroad,

or just in general, build great relationships with native English speakers,

you need to be able to present yourself properly.

And in this class, I promise you, after you have watched it,

you're going to be able to present yourself both properly and appropriately,

whatever the setting may be, whether that be when presenting yourself

to a stranger on the street, when interviewing for your dream job,

or when you approach that handsome looking guy or that cute looking girl

in English.

But before we get started, feel free to activate subtitles and change the speed.

If you need to activate subtitles in your own language

to be able to understand me, do that.

If you think I'm talking too fast,

slow me down or speed me up if you think I'm talking too slow.

Also, please do me a favor.

If you have a friend or a colleague or

someone who you know who needs to be able to present themselves properly in English,

share this video with them.

Your like actually helps the video reach a lot more people

with one simple like, you are able to help us reach more people

who need to learn this so that they can improve their English and eventually their

lives and the lives of their families as well.

And remember to subscribe so you don't miss out on any new videos.
Context

Now, the first thing we have to think about

when we present ourselves is: the context.

Because depending on the context, your presentation will be quite different.

If you're presenting yourself

to an interviewer at a job interview, or you're presenting yourself to a girl

at a party, your presentation is going to be quite different.

So in this class, I'm going to teach you several very common and useful phrases

that you can use in all different contexts.

But it's up to you to note down these phrases,

play around with them, and just go out and actually practice.

Now, let's start with the most basic thing.

The first thing we typically say and that is our name.

We can say: "I am Kale, I'm Kale."

We typically contract or we can say:

"My name is Kale"

But it's way more common to just say: "I'm" and then your name.

If you have a complicated name,

or maybe if you have a name that is quite particular from your country

that foreign people struggle to pronounce,

you can use this strategy:

"I'm Briseida, but it can be quite hard for people to pronounce, so feel free to just call me Brie."

If I know that my name is hard for a lot of people to pronounce,

I will introduce myself like that, explaining to them what my friends or

my family typically call me, making it easier for them to interact with me.

After we've set our name,

we typically move on to talk about where we are from,

or make some sort of reference to the place we are in.

Typically, because if you're learning English and you speak to a native English Speaker,

if you're in your home country or you are abroad meeting a native speaker

who is from there, it's always going to be relevant to talk about where you are from.

You can say: "I'm from (country), Sweden, Colombia, Mexico."

You can also say: "I am" and your nationality.

So you can say: "I am Swedish" or "I am Colombian" or "I am Mexican."

You cannot say "I am Mexico" or "I'm from colombian."

So it's always "I'm colombian" or "I'm from Colombia."

Now, you can also refer to a city, so you can say: "I'm from Bogota."

but in English, actually, in my opinion, native speakers use this wrong.

They can actually say: "I come from Melbourne"

even though they actually don't come from Melbourne.

They might have moved there when they were 7, 8, 9, 10 years old,

but they are not originally from there,

but they will still say "I'm from" this place.

That's okay.

But here are a couple of other options that you can use as well.

"I come from Mornington, close to Melbourne",

or "I was raised in Mornington", or "I grew up in Mornington", for example.

That makes it a little bit more clear that you were actually born there

and lived there throughout some period of your life.

I would say: "I'm Kale.

I'm from Sweden and I grew up in a small town in the south of the country."

I can also say: "I'm originally from Sweden, but now I live in Medellín, Colombia."

If you want to talk about how long you've been living in a certain place,

that's a perfect opportunity to use the present perfect.

And I can say: "I have lived in Colombia since 2019."

or "I have been living in Colombia since 2019."

or "I've lived in Colombia for the past two years".

And I can also say: "I moved to Colombian two years ago."

Also, feel free to present yourselves in the comments here below.

I will take some time and I will look

and I'll respond to some of you guys, so please send me your presentations.

I'm very curious to hear about you as well.
Family

Now, what typically comes after we have presented ourselves with our names

and had a little chat about, you know, the place we're in or where we're from.

Now, it depends on contexts.

So, if I'm in a job interview, for example,

I'm probably not gonna to start talking about my family or my interests or hobbies,

but more about my job related experiences, for example.

If I'm at a party, I'm probably not going to start talking about my job.

That would be a bit boring, but more likely my interests or my passion.

If I meet someone who lives in the same building as I do,

maybe I will start talking about family, for example.

So it all depends on the context.

But I'm going to go through different themes here

and you get to decide which theme you want to talk about,

and you can use some of the phrases in these themes.

Let's start with family.

Family is a fantastic topic to talk about, and it works in many different contexts.

If you want to say you are in a relationship, you can say this:

"Me and my husband have been married since 2015."

"We've been married since 2015."

"We've been married for seven years."

If you're not married but you're still in a relationship, you can say:

"We've been together for two years." Or "We've been together since 2019."

Now, obviously, if you're married,

you refer to your partner as your husband or your wife.
-->
But if you're not married but you have been in a relationship for a long time,

it can sound quite unserious to say boyfriend or girlfriend.

It might sound more temporal than if you say, for example, partner.

So if you've been with your partner for a long period of time

and you have a stable relationship, it is more common to refer to

your boyfriend or your girlfriend as your partner.

Now, when describing your family and typically when talking about how many

you are in your family, here are a couple of options:

"I grew up in a family of five."

This means that there are five people in total in your family,

and your family is typically your parents and your siblings, your direct family.

However, it's still quite loose.

You don't necessarily know if you grew up only with your mom or with both your parents

and how many are brothers or sisters.

It's quite unclear.

So, if you want to be more clear, you can say it like this.

"I grew up with my mother, my sister, and two brothers."

Now, we use the word siblings to refer to both sisters and brothers.

So I can say: "I have three siblings, two brothers and one sister."

However, if you say that you have three siblings,

that does not include you. Then you can say: "I am one of four siblings."

If you don't have any siblings, we say: "I'm an only child."

"I'm an only child."

That's how we refer to that.

Now, typically in the US or England,

the UK or Australia or even Sweden, for example, we don't necessarily refer

to our cousins and aunts and uncles as our family, but more so our extended family.

So, you could say: "I live in Bogota, but most of my extended family lives in Medellín."

So, you don't have to mention all of them.

Now. Let's talk about children.

Let's talk about kids.

If you have a child you can say: "I have a five year old daughter."

"I have a seven year old son."

Or "I have twins" or "I have a newborn baby" or just "I have a newborn."

If you are single but you have kids, you say: "I'm a single parent."

"I'm a single parent, I'm a single dad or I'm a single mom."

Anyhow here's a good tip.

When you talk about your family, try to be as descriptive and emotional as possible.

It's your closest family,

you love them a lot so there's obviously a lot of emotions there.

So, instead of saying just "I'm a single mother, I have a daughter." You can say:

"I'm a single mother, I have a 9 year old daughter and she just started learning English

like me. We're learning together and it's super exciting.

So you add some emotion, you're trying to be more descriptive.

If someone asks you about your family

in your own language, you don't typically just give them one short reply.

You start talking about your family and how your family makes you feel.

Do the same in English.

Also, when you are descriptive,

it doesn't matter if your English is not that good yet.

Try to be as descriptive as possible,

even though your English is quite limited, because when you describe more,

it is way easier for that other person to make follow up questions and ask

relevant questions that are easy for you to respond.

For example, if you say that you have

a 9 year old daughter who just started learning English,

it's easy for the other person to ask: "Oh, what school does she go to?"

"What interests does she have?"

And it's also easier for them to make some sort of comment like:

"Oh, you must feel so motivated when you're both learning together."
Work

Right?

Now, let's start talking about work.

Your job, because inevitably you're going to need to talk about your job.

And there's a couple of ways we can do that.

For example, if you are an engineer.

If you work as an engineer, that's how we say it:

"I am an engineer."

"I am a doctor." Or "I work as an engineer." Or "I work as a doctor."

If you're an entrepreneur, you can use the words "own" or "run".

So you can say I own a clothing line,

for example, or you can say I run an education business.

It is also very common when you present your work

to just mention in which industry you're working.

So you could say, for example:

"I work in marketing, I work in design, I work in construction."

Rather than saying: "I work at a construction company",

"I work at a marketing agency", or "I work at a clinic."

You can also say that you work for someone, and this typically applies

when you work at a very big, wellknown company, or maybe for the government.

"I work for the government", or "I work for Google."

You can also say: "I work for myself, I work for myself."

"I'm self-employed."

Let's say you're a graphical designer

and people pay you to design things for them, then you are self employed.

"I work for myself."

Or maybe you can say: "I'm a freelancer", or "I work as a freelancer."

Okay, let's move on to talk about more of the fun stuff.

Your interests and passions.

In English, native speakers love to use the word "enjoy."

"I enjoy cooking"

"I enjoy swimming"

"I enjoy going to the gym"

It sounds a little bit more native like to say: "I enjoy cooking" than "I enjoy to cook."

Native speakers also love the word "love",

and they use it all the time, even for the smallest of things.

"I love playing football"

"I love spending time with my family"

You see there how I use "I love playing football."

And "I love spending time", rather than "I love to play" or "I love to spend time."

It's just a more normal and more native like way to speak.

You can also also say: "I'm into."

Which basically means I am interested in or I like.

For example, you can say: "I'm into fitness."

Or "I'm really into fitness", if you are really interested in fitness.
Interests

Now, when you talk about interests

and your passions and hobbies, it can be quite monotonous.

And it's very common that we are in situations at parties, for example,

where people ask us what we do, what we like doing on our free time,

and we typically give the most common answers:

"No. I like to spend time with my family."

"I like to watch movies"

"I like to go to the gym."

Surprise them. Do something interesting.

One thing you can do is you can say this phrase:

"One thing most people don't know about me is...", and then finish that sentence.

That makes the conversation a whole lot more interesting

than just listing typical interests that we all have.

For example, I can say:

"One thing that most people don't know about me is that I love throwing pre-parties in my apartment.

We get food,

we have drinks on the balcony, and maybe play a drinking game or two."

Please try to finish this sentence yourself.

"One thing you may not know about me is..."

Please finish this sentence for me down in the comments below.

I would love to read about you.
Education

Now let's move on to education.

One of the most important or most common things to talk about

with new people that you meet is your education.

Whether that be at a job interview or in casual settings.

If you are currently studying,

we typically say: "I'm studying engineering" or "I'm studying to become an engineer",

"I'm studying medicine", or "I'm studying to become a doctor."

We can also be more specific.

For example, if you talk to someone who may have studied something similar,

you can say, for example, in this case: "I'm studying industrial engineering."

If you think that's going to make sense to that person.

If you're done studying, if you are finished studying, you can say:

"I've finished my law degree" or "I have a degree in economics."

"I have a degree in engineering", for example.

Now, you're also going to hear a lot of people, especially native speakers,

adding one word when they're talking about their title.

And that is "qualified."

So you're going to hear people say: "I'm a qualified psychologist",

"I'm a qualified engineer", "I'm a qualified doctor."

And that is in no way because they want to brag and show off,

but just to explain to you that they have already finished their degree.

However, do not say this at parties.

It can come off as a bit rude, maybe, or as if you're bragging.

But in a professional setting,

on a job interview, you can definitely say: "I'm a qualified engineer", for example.
Nonformal Education

Now, nowadays, it's very normal with non formal education.

I'm a huge believer in non formal education

and actually educating yourself on your own on the internet, right?

And so, if you are someone who is educating yourself on your own, you can say, for example:

"I am taking an English course on the internet", or "I am learning about

investments in cryptocurrencies on YouTube."

And so here you have it.

A bunch of very useful phrases in a bunch of different contexts that you can now use.

And you can put it together into a nice flowing introduction.

Practice that a little bit until you can get a nice flowing introduction out.

My introduction, for example, would be: "Hi, my name is Kale.

I'm from Sweden, but I've lived in Colombia since 2019.

I run my own education business.

I am the founder of one of the fastest growing

English courses and communities in the world.

I love to watch and play football as well as going to the gym.

And one thing you may not know about me is

I occasionally love going to dinners with my friends and have

one too many shots of tequila and sing along with reggaeton and ranchera songs.

What about you?

Please tell me about yourself in the comments below.

The sooner you do it, the more likely it is that I will actually

be able to see it and give you some feedback.

So, make sure you write your own presentation in the comments here below.

And I'm very curious to see what you have to say.

Now, you may be wondering, how do I make these sentences?

These phrases flow together nicely in a long introduction about myself

without interruptions, without translating in my head.

And this is a big problem.

You may already know a lot of these phrases that I've taught you here already.

But you may not know how to create full sentences of them when going into real conversations,

which can cause a lot of frustration and maybe even some anxiety.

I know because I've been there myself.

Now here's the good news.

There's actually a secret technique called interactive stories that allows you,

through listening to stories, be able to create long and beautiful

sentences intuitively without translating in your head.

And not just that, but also be able to ask

and respond to questions quickly and automatically as well.

So, that you can go out and have a real two-sided conversation

with a native English speaker shortly.
Surprise

Now I have an awesome surprise for you.

All of the students in my course,

they all use this method, Interactive Stories,

as their main method for learning grammar and be able to speak automatically

intuitively without studying grammar rules.

And you are very lucky because I have

actually uploaded a video here on my channel on YouTube for free,

which is an exact replica of one of those classes from my course.

So it's basically like you're getting a class from my course for free

when you watch this video now if you

search for this video it may be hard for you to find it.

So, I'm going to do something special, I'm going to put it right here

on the screen and it's going to appear at any second now.

What I want you to do is when you see it,

click on it and then I'll see you inside that very video.

Thank you so much for watching this one.

I hope you enjoyed it.

Click here now and I'll see you in that video.