
#


Deanna task2 7-day-challenge-x day 2: 
Manage your time effectively

Apprentice:
Miguel Gutierrez
Instructor:  	Deanna Philpott

Course:
7-day-challenge-x
Evidence: Manage your time effectively
Record audio and submit to your folder outlining what your current life looks like, what your dream life looks like, and explain how English practice fits into it, is it an obligation? Why? What is it going to help you achieve?  

Hello everyone!, this is Miguel Gutierrez ​from 7-day-challenge with Deanna.​

And in this video We are going to learn about the topic: ​
"Honest answers that motivate you to learn the English language."

Link to the video on YouTube: "pending!"

Very well, let's have fun.​

Oh! I almost forgot, our mission. ok


2. Our Mission!!!

Reflect on your motivations for learning English with honest answers that inspire you to continue your language journey. Consider the benefits, personal goals, and aspirations that drive your learning. Share these thoughts with someone else to encourage them in their language learning journey.

And, of course, what we like the most, a lot of new vocabulary, among other things, are present in this document.

But I'll stop our mission here because it seems a bit lengthy, and I don't want to bore you. So let's get started right away.

Now we are ready to have fun!
#
#
#                


what your current life looks like?:
Wow, I truly have no words to describe this miracle I currently possess. I think the best word is ""miracle"" a blessing.


what your dream life looks like?:
My life is ideal, it's perfect. I love her just the way she is, I wouldn't change any aspect she has. She's my possibility, opportunity, power.



explain how English practice fits into it?:
It would fit very, very well. I already have the power to learn, why not use it? I have legs, I walk, I run; obviously, I learned how to do it. The English language, as a universal language, gives me the ability to listen to and speak to the world.


                    
Is it an obligation?:
It's a talent, it's a gift that thanks to life I can use to learn, a kind characteristic of life is "she is constantly disciplined", she does not abandon you, she is with you until the last breath of your existence, that teaches you day by day and it is a very good lesson that I can also apply to learn what I propose: "constant discipline" in the learning process, being "immersed" in the process ignoring everything and more at the beginning, when you see fewer results and the mountain seems impossible to climb.



Why?:
If a bird has wings, it can use them to fly; if life gives me so many beautiful gifts, how can I not use them, how can I not enjoy them? Nowadays, I do many things that I have learned. I may have forgotten how difficult it was to learn them, but nowadays I enjoy doing these activities; one of them is walking. You can ask a baby how difficult it was for him; he will speak to you in his beautiful language, he will not lie to you, you will see.


What is it going to help you achieve?
English is the universal language. I will be able to communicate with the world. It's awakening another ability with its qualities.


For me, there is no greater achievement than connecting with my life, with my peace (yes, that's where world peace begins), my joy, with that beautiful light that makes everything possible for me, this breath. I already possess it, that's what matters, it's just a matter of making the connection. I don't need to search outside of myself for something that represents true and impossible value for me. What is impossible for me is happening within me, life; everything else is simply possible and not as important as the gift of life. Being aware of this every day is important to me.
It's just a matter of enjoying. Thanks to the impossible, I can enjoy all the possible possibilities, all of them, which are too many nowadays, but without disconnecting from what is real and really important: "The miracle of life".


About Some questions to consider:
I do meditation for 1 hour when I feel very tired. The idea is to do it daily, but I don't do it every day.

Thank you.


#
#
#
Now my question in this video is this:
Would you like to learn the English language and why?


So leave your answers below this video
And remember, you have the best of the best.

Thank for watching, and See you next time. :-)

-




###







