What did you use to do when you were bored?

Certainly! Let's translate that to English:

"This component aims to review some of the most common grammatical tenses in English, such as the present simple, past simple, and past continuous, to express more complex ideas. In addition to reviewing these topics, we will explore some complementary features of the past tense, such as the use of 'would' and 'used to' to talk about past routines. We will also cover sequential connectors in the past and vocabulary related to feelings and emotions."¹

Feel free to ask if you have any further questions or need additional assistance! 

Origen: Conversación con Bing, 4/5/2024
(1) Google Translate. https://translate.google.es/?hl=en&tab=wT.
(2) DeepL Translate - El mejor traductor del mundo. https://www.deepl.com/es/translator.
(3) Ejercicios para practicar la gramática inglesa del nivel A2 - ABA English. https://www.abaenglish.com/es/ejercicios-ingles/gramatica/a2/.



Certainly! Let's translate that to English:

The ways of talking about events from the past, present, or future vary depending on the level of vocabulary knowledge and grammatical structures that the speaker possesses to present the ideas they wish to express. For this reason, it is imperative to elevate the level of structures and vocabulary used when expressing ideas; even if they are basic grammar structures, there are elements that can be included to enhance the conversation. To achieve this goal, during this component, we will review basic grammatical elements such as the present simple, past simple, and past continuous, and focus on creating complex sentences. Additionally, we will work with 'used to' and 'would' as elements to complement the past, not only describing facts but also past routines. Based on the above, we welcome you to explore this educational component, and to begin, we invite you to watch the video presented below.

Feel free to ask if you have any further questions or need additional assistance! 

Origen: Conversación con Bing, 4/5/2024
(1) A2 Pre-intermediate | LearnEnglish. https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/english-levels/understand-your-english-level/a2-pre-intermediate.
(2) A2 English level | British Council. https://www.britishcouncil.co/en/english/levels/a2.
(3) English A2 level - CEFR definition and tests | EF SET. https://www.efset.org/cefr/a2/.
(4) Italian A2 vocabulary list - Lingookies. https://lingookies.com/italian-a2-vocabulary-list/.
(5) A2 reading | LearnEnglish. https://learnenglish.britishcouncil.org/skills/reading/a2-reading.



My apologies for the oversight! Here's the corrected translation:

"Introduction
If you'd like to practice, the following PDF presents the texts from the previous video, both in English and Spanish."

If you have any further questions or need additional assistance, feel free to ask! 😊



Here, we will get to review some grammar tenses, such
as: Present simple, Past continuous, Past simple and
the use of,  used to. Besides, Perfect tenses, Third
conditional, and modal verbs in the past will be
studied, along with vocabulary related to feelings,
emotions, art, literature, and unfortunate events.
We will also work on Past time linkers and expressions
to indicate future in the past.
And finally, we will see expressions in the past to deal
with all the tenses involved in this course.
Therefore, thank you for watching this introductory
video and we expect you find this new course very
interesting.



1 My life used to be blue
In English, there are a lot of ways to express ideas, feelings and emotions. Some of them are specific words that you can find in a dictionary; however, some others are expressions called “idioms”, which are more elaborated and common in everyday speech. Expressions such as “to be all at sea” or “to be hopping mad” are common in native English speakers.
As the previous ones, there are some other expressions that you can use in English in order to have a more complex conversation. Here are some other expressions:


Vocabulary 
Expressions that can be used in English to have a more complex conversation.

Feel blue
Green with envy
Fed up
On cloud nine
Tickled pink
To be yellow
Chilled out
Spaced out
Shaken up
To be on pins and needles


When talking about feelings and emotions in English, it is natural to use some expressions that may sound odd due to vocabulary used to express them. Some of them are expressed with colors, as you can see in the following example.


Conversation 1:


Sara: Hey, Danny! How’re you doing?
Danny: Hi, Sara, not so good, I feel blue today.
Sara: Why? What happened?
Danny: I was green with envy when my brother showed me his new car, that’s terrible of me.


Some other expressions related to feelings and emotions use adverbs to complement the sentence. Let's test how much you learned using the vocabulary. Complete the following dialogue.

Practice dialogue

Here's a simple translation: Next, here is the following dialogue between two characters who use expressions related to feelings and emotions.

Dialogue Feelings and emotions

What’s up Tory?
Not much, Gio, I feel completely fed up!
Really? I am on cloud nine! But, tell me, what’s going on?
I can imagine you passed the test, but I failed it.


2 Grammar review 

Due to the nature of this component, it is necessary to review some important grammar, such as Present Simple, Past Simple, and Past Continuous. The idea is to start expressing more complex ideas by using basic grammar structures which will complement the knowledge acquired throughout the course.


2.1 Present Simple

The present simple is one of the most common tenses when speaking because it is the one used to express about everyday activities, facts from the present, likes, dislikes, and routines in general. So let’s take a look at the basic structures:

The simple present tense is conjugated using the basic form of the verb (it is the same as the infinitive, but without the word “to”). It is of great importance to consider that, when a verb is conjugated in the third-person singular, an "s" must be added at the end.

Now, you are invited to listen to the following BBC Learning English Podcast, where the grammatical concepts and the use of regular and irregular verbs using the simple present will be explained.


Sophie
Hello and welcome to 6 Minute
Grammar with me, Sophie.

Neil
And me, Neil. Hello.

Sophie
Today we're talking about the
present simple tense...


Neil
and the present continuous
tense. Coming up in today's
programme:

Sophie
We'll take a look at positives,
negatives, and question forms...

Neil
We'll find out when to use each
tense...


In the following table, you can see the form of conjugation, which will depend on the subject or grammatical person being spoken about, taking into account whether it is in a singular or plural number.


In the following table, you can see the form of conjugation, which will depend on the subject or grammatical person being spoken about, taking into account whether it is in a singular or plural number.

Table 1 Personal pronouns with the verb 'to work'

I work. 
You work. 
He works.
She works.
It works. 
We work.
You work. 
They work.

Let's see how a verb interacts with the rest of the words in the sentences using the present simple in affirmative, negative, and interrogative sentences.

In the following resource, you can see each grammatical structure.

Affirmative form of the simple present tense.

In its affirmative form, the simple present tense uses its basic form and has the following structure:

Charles enjoys romantic music.

Negative form of the simple present tense
In its negative form, the simple present tense uses its basic form and has the following structure:

Charles doesn't enjoy romantic music.


Interrogative form of the simple present tense.

In its interrogative form, the simple present tense uses its basic form and has the following structure:
Does Charles enjoy romantic music? 


In the following table, we will introduce some rules to keep in mind with some regular and irregular verbs.

Simple Present Tense 

Verbs for He/She/It and Singular Nouns

Spelling Rules	Examples
With most verbs, add s	Live - lives

Sit - sits
work - Works
Read - reads

Ending in consonant + y change y to i and add es	

try - tries
carry - carries


Ending in s, z, o, sh, ch, or x add es	

miss - -misses
buzz - buzzes
catch - catches
fix - fixes

Exceptions	

go - goes
do - does
have - has

I just realized how little I do on weekends. In general, I just relax, read a little, watch some movies...  Based on this statement, we invite you to listen to the following more complex dialogue elaborated with the grammatical structures of the present simple:

Conversation 2:
Joe: Hey, Danna. What do you do on weekends?
Danna: Hi, Joe. Well, I travel to towns with my family.
Joe: Wow! That sounds fun!
Danna: For sure! We love going to towns and trying new food.

Now we are going to see a more complex interaction, where questions can be asked in the present simple using the wh questions and the word because", that is used to connect the effect and the cause that can represent a reason or explanation. Complete the following dialogue.

Drag and Drop
Drag and drop each of the words in the correct order.

Wh questions and the word because

Nina, good to see that you still live in the same neighborhood.

Yes! It is impressive how many people move from a place to another and you don’t even notice it.

where do you stay when you are not here? Because I usually pass by your house and I don’t always see you here.

Well, I have to go to my grandmother’s house in the afternoon because she is ill and I take care of her.

As seen in the examples, more complex interactions can be achieved by using linkers to introduce more useful information to the sentence, and it is not even necessary to use a different grammar tense.

2.2 Past Simple 

The past simple is quite an important tense when having a conversation at a basic, intermediate or advanced level. Therefore, being able to express your ideas using the past simple becomes a must. In order to do it, it is necessary to go from producing basic sentences using only one verb and one structure to link two or more ideas with different structures previously seen. 

In order to do it, it is important to check the basics, let’s do it:

Affirmative sentences: 

To write affirmative sentences in the simple past, you must write the verb in the past, but there are two types of verbs: regular and irregular. Irregular verbs are found in a list of conjugated verbs in their base form; however, regular verbs have to follow some rules to make them past tense.

Susy brought a sandwich.
Peter played chess with her.

Negative sentences:

It is also possible to write negative sentences in order to talk about those events that didn’t happen to us. To do it, we need the following structure:


Susy didn’t bring a sandwich.

Peter didn’t play chess with her.

Interrogative sentences:

In case you need to know any information about something that happened in the past, you have to use an interrogative structure, let’s see how it works:

Did Susy bring a sandwich?
Did Peter play chess with her?


To write affirmative sentences in the simple past, you must write the verb in the past, but there are two types of verbs: regular and irregular. Irregular verbs are found in a list of conjugated verbs in their base form; however, regular verbs have to follow some rules to make them past tense.


##
To write in English correctly, it is essential to master irregular verbs, which are the ones that break the regular rule. Irregular verbs are those that don’t follow the conjugation rules of regular verbs. That is, unlike regular verbs, irregular verbs don’t have the ending -ed or -d when conjugated in the past simple. Here are two lists of verbs with some examples:


Regular verbs
Regular verbs have rules that you have to follow

CONJUGATION

RULE:
General rule

Add ED to the verb.
Example:
Walk  Walked
Play  Played

Verbs ended in E
Add D to the verb.
Example:
Love  Loved
Live  Lived

Verbs ended in Y after a consonant
Change Y for IED in the verb.

Example:
Study  Studied
Copy  Copied


Consonant doubling
Double the last consonant when:

It’s ended cons-vow-cons.

K, W, X are not doubled.

Only double when the last syllable is stressed.

Example:
Stop  Stopped
Control  Controlled


Irregular verbs

Irregular verbs don’t follow any rule, they all appear in a list, the irregular verb list:

Base Form   Past Simple   Past Participle
awake       awoke         awoken
be          was, were     been
beat        beat          beaten
become      became        become
begin       began         begun
bend        bent          bent
bet         bet           bet
bid         bid           bid
bite        bit           bitten
blow        blew          blown
break       broke         broken

Now that the basics are established, it is possible to start building complex sentences by using connectors, such as when or because, that allow us to properly connect our ideas and sentences that can change an entire speech and demonstrate structure, argument, and flow. Let’s see an example:


Conversation 3:
Zury: Frank, why was your mother so angry when you arrived last night?
Frank: It’s a funny story. She was angry because I told her I was near home.
Zury: So, it was my fault! I said we were downtown! Sorry!
Frank: Yes, Zury, you exposed me! But I wasn’t angry because I knew you didn’t do it on purpose.


2.3 Past Continuous (Pasado continuo) 

Past continuous is a very useful tool when the goal is to complement ideas or just give context to an event in the past. This tense allows the speaker or writer to create more complex sentences by adding contextual information to them or showing simultaneous actions. Let’s see some examples.

In order to add ING to the verbs, you have to follow some specific rules. These rules are used in affirmative, negative, and interrogative sentences because the verb is always in ING form, let’s see them:

ING form rules

1. General rule
add ING to the verb.
Example:
Call  Calling
Buy  Buying


2. Ended e
change E for ING.

Example:
Drive  Driving
Hide  Hiding

3. Ended ie
change IE for YING.
Example:
Die  Dying
Tie  Tying


4. Consonant doubling
double the last consonant when:

It’s ended cons-vow-cons.
K, W, X are not doubled.
Only double when the last syllable is stressed.
Example:
Run  Running
Control  Controlling

Warning #1
If any verb is misspelled, the whole sentence will be wrong.

After having seen some specific rules of ing, we can conclude that the past continuous expresses the duration of a past action and does not indicate whether it is finished, while the past simple refers to a specific action that began and ended in the past.
To make the past simple, we put an -ed at the end of a regular verb, or we use an irregular verb, which has another form. The past continuous is formed with was / were, plus the gerund (the -ing form of the verb).


In the following video, you can see the past continuous that is used to set the scene and the things that happen continuously, and the past simple for brief actions that happen in the meantime... That is, the specific actions carried out by Mr. Cristian and Mrs. Lety in the middle of the scene.

You are invited to explore the video below:

Let’s see how past continuous is used to complement the past simple in order to give context to the actions that were being done at a moment in the past. Let’s practice with a short exercise.

What were you doing when I called you?

Sorry Helena, I was listening to music while the phone was ringing.

I was trying to fix my PC, that’s why I called you.

I thought you were working at the office. Please, forgive me!

By using expressions such as when (to introduce a simple sentence), while”(to introduce a continuous sentence) or that’s why (to introduce an explanation), you can complement your ideas in English.

Let’s practice with a short exercise. Complete the following conversation using when, while or that’s why.


Were you checking your phone while I was talking to you?
Of course not, I was just putting my phone in silent mode when you called my name.
I thought you were playing, that’s why I was in anger with you.
Sorry, teacher. It won’t happen again.


3 Habits in the past (Hábitos en el pasado)
When talking about the past, it is important to clarify that some of those expressions we use to communicate activities that were a routine in the past or habits cannot just be told by using the simple past basic structures because they only talk about facts and events from the past, but they don’t allow you to show routines. So, if you want to talk about feelings and emotions using simple past, you can tell how you felt in a moment or period of time. Let’s see some examples:

Conversation 4:
Teacher: Daniel felt tickled pink when Karla helped him with his homework. 
Teacher: Marlon stayed home because he was afraid of getting out.
Teacher: Bob felt on cloud nine when he saw snow for the first time.
Teacher: My teacher got angry due to our behavior in her class. 
Teacher: I was spaced out during high school, but I changed in college. 

As you can see in the previous examples, those expressions only show how the person felt at a moment in the past or a period of time. Therefore, in order to be able to communicate past routines and habits, let’s see how to use “used to” and “would”.

3.1 Use of "used to" - narrative (Uso de "used to" - narrativa)

Used to is an expression we use to talk about repeated actions in the past that we don’t do in the present, besides, it is also used to talk about states in the past which are no longer true. 

The structures don’t change very much because, used to is only an expression, not a grammar structure. Therefore, the structure of simple past is used in order to assemble the sentences. Let’s see how it works:

Affirmative sentence:
Examples

My mom used to feel blue when I rode my motorcycle. 
Natalia used to be yellow when she was at elementary school.

Negative sentence:

Examples
My mom didn’t use to feel blue when I rode my motorcycle.
Natalia didn’t use to be yellow when she was at elementary school.

Interrogative sentence:
Examples:
Did my mom use to feel blue when I rode my motorcycle? 
Did Natalia use to be yellow when she was at elementary school?


Warning #2
We can also write negative sentences in order to talk about those routines that we didn’t have or something that was not part of our daily activities.

Warning #3
In case you need to know any information about some people’s routines or daily activities, you have to use an interrogative structure.

Let’s see if you are able to complete the following sentences with, used to, based on the structures seen:

Complete the following sentences with ,used to, based on the structures seen.

Where did you use to go on vacation in summer?

I used to travel to Costa Rica, my hometown.

Awesome! I didn’t use to travel when I was younger.

That’s too bad, I have incredible memories.

3.2 Use of “would” for habits 

The use of, would, for talking about habits is not that common. Would, is different from, used to, because it is an auxiliary verb and it doesn’t use the same structures of the simple past.

We can discuss past habits using, would, in much the same way, and with the same meaning as, used to. Here is the formula: subject + would + base form of the verb. For the negative, use subject + wouldn’t + base form of the verb. 

Some examples: 

When we were young, our mother would cook delicious meals every day. We could also say: Our mother used to cook delicious meals every day. 

Every weekend, I would take a long bike ride during summer vacations. Every weekend, I used to take a long bike ride... is also correct. Let’s see the structures:

 Affirmative sentence:

 Examples:

 Donna would eat pizza every time she was sad.
 Jeff would travel to Europe in the summer when he was rich.

 Negative sentence:
 Examples:

 Donna wouldn’t eat pizza every time she was sad.

 Jeff wouldn’t travel to Europe in the summer when he was rich.

 Interrogative sentence:

 Examples:
 Would Donna eat pizza every time she was sad? 
 Would Jeff travel to Europe in the summer when he was rich?

 Warning #4
 We can also write negative sentences in order to talk about those routines that we didn’t have or something that was not part of our daily activities.

Warning #5

In case you need to know any information about some people’s routines or daily activities, you have to use an interrogative structure.

Let’s see if you are able to complete the following sentences with “would” based on the structures seen:

Complete the following sentences with, would, based on the structures seen.

I wouldn’t go (not/go) out every weekend when I was in college.

I know you would spend (spend) your weekend playing videogames at home.

What would you do (do) on weekend when you were in college?

I had a boyfriend at college so I would spend the whole weekend with him

Here are some other examples:

Teacher: Laura used to smoke when she was stressed, but she doesn’t do it anymore.
Teacher: My cousins didn’t use to come home often until I got my new videogame.
Teacher: Where did you use to go when you were bored?
Teacher: I wouldn’t go to the gym because I was lazy.
Teacher: I would go to the library every day in high school because my house was too noisy. 

4 Sequential linkers - Past time 

Telling a story is a difficult task when there are no sequential linkers to give a structure to the narration. That is why they are such an important piece to order and structure a story. In English, there are several linkers and they can be used in most tenses. 

Connectors in English are words or phrases with which two or more ideas can get related. There is a great diversity of connectors thanks to the fact that there are many ways to relate them, that is, sentences can be joined to complement each other, contradict each other, raise a cause or a conclusion, among other functions that are explained below.

First
It is used to initiate a sentence or a series of sentences.

Example:
First, crack the egg.

Then
It is used to show the following event in a series
Example:
Then, add the flour.

Next
It is used to show the following event in a series.

Example:
Next, mix it for a minute.

After
It is used to show the following event in a series; it can be proceeded by a subject or a verb in ING form.

Example:
After mixing, add some oil.


After that
It is used to show the following event in a series.

Example:
After that, heat the oven.

Before
It is used to show the previous event in a series.

Example:
Before cooking, put some butter on.

Before that
It is used to show the previous event in a series.

Example:
Before that, melt the butter.

Finally
It is used to finish a narration, to conclude a story.

Example:
Finally, cook it during thirty minutes.


Let’s see if you are able to complete the following sentences with the correct linkers:

----

, I entered college, it was the best day of my life, ----

I got graduated. I still can’t believe time really flies when you are having fun. However, ---- finishing the ceremony I felt empty, like something was missing. That is why I talked to Professor Geller, my favorite teacher. He suggested studying my master’s degree, 
but ---- , I had to make money to pay the fees, it was incredibly expensive. ---- , I decided to ask for a student’s loan, it will be more expensive, but I won’t waste my time.






















