Componente formativo: You can't undo the past... but you can certainly not repeat it 


Basic English Translation (Level A2):

You cannot undo the past… but you can certainly not repeat it.

In this part, we aim to work on the use of the past perfect and past perfect continuous, which allow us to talk about actions in the past that happened before another action in the past. Also, there will be adverbs to complement the actions told and used in the part. To talk about past actions, we will also use the third conditional, which will allow us to talk about regrets. Modal verbs will complement the ideas presented and, finally, the vocabulary about literature and unfortunate events.

Claro, puedo ayudarte a convertir esa tabla HTML en texto justificado en columnas. Aquí tienes el texto convertido:

Desarrollo de contenidos         Introducción
1 The author creates a serene atmosphere (El autor crea una atmósfera serena)
2 Perfect tenses (Tiempos perfectos)
3 Modal verbs in the past (Verbos modales en pasado)
4 Third conditional: regret (Tercer condicional: arrepentimiento)
Síntesis                         Actividad didáctica


Basic English Translation (Level A2):

SENA 
Digital Educational Resources Ecosystem

This material can be distributed, copied, and displayed by others if credits are shown. No commercial profit can be made, and derivative works must be under the same terms of the license as the original work.

Base v6.3.0 - Package v5.3.1


Introduction
Basic English Translation (Level A2):
When we talk about past events, there are different grammatical structures to discuss various aspects of the past. In this unit, we will work on the past perfect tense, which focuses on showing past events that happened before another past event. During the unit, we will show its structure and also when not to use this language feature.
This unit also includes the use of the third conditional, a grammatical element that allows us to talk about situations that, if they had happened, would have led to a certain reaction. Other important topics for this unit are modal verbs in the past.
The vocabulary element of this unit is based on literature, art, and unfortunate events. With this in mind, we welcome you to the study of this formative unit and, to start, we invite you to explore the video presented below:

Inglés
Hello, my name is Edgardo, and today I welcome you to the second component of this course: English Does Work Level 9 Here, we will learn useful vocabulary when
talking about literature and unfortunate events.

Besides, we will work on perfect tenses, such as the past perfect and the past perfect continuous, to talk about events that happened or were happening before another event in
the past.

We will also study some important modal verbs.
These modal verbs are used in perfect tenses, too.
To finish, we will learn how to use the third conditional, which is used to talk about regrets and things that you would have done under certain circumstances or situations.

Thank you for watching this introductory video and I hope you find this new course very interesting.

1 The author creates a serene atmosphere

There are different expressions that allow you to talk about literature and unfortunate events. However, it is not about having a lot of vocabulary or expressions. The idea in this component is to show the most useful expressions and words in order to express your opinion on literature, art, culture, customs, and unfortunate events.

Art, in general, is a difficult topic to talk about because of several reasons. There are those who think that art is just a subjective projection of who they are and some others who believe in beauty standards and a structure of what art is. Anyway, when referring to this topic, it is important to know some vocabulary in order to express those opinions or ideas towards a piece of art. Let’s see some vocabulary that will help us talk about it:


Balance
It refers to the arrangement of one or more elements in a work of art so that they appear symmetrical.


Example
This piece of art represents balance at its purest by showing symmetrical elements.

Contrast
It refers to the use of opposites close or beside one another.
Example:
Thanks to the contrast of the picture, the viewer can focus on the main element. 


Focal point
It refers to the center of interest of a piece of art, it is the part you want the viewer to focus on.

 The focal point in this photograph was well achieved thanks to the blur. 

 Intensity
 It has to do with the brightness of a color.
 The intensity of red in this image remarks the significance of this element.

 Asymmetrical
 It refers to a balance done through the use of imbalanced parts or elements. 
 Due to the asymmetrical element of the flower, the picture feels odd. 

 Texture
 It refers to the way things feel or look when touched. 

  The image feels rough due to the texture of the color.

After seeing general vocabulary on art, it is also important to focus on some very specific vocabulary that will allow you to have a conversation using an elevated language and precise ideas. In this part of the component, we are going to focus on literature and, to change the topic a little bit, we will work on unfortunate events.

1.1 Talking about literature

In order to talk about literature, it is important to learn not only words, but how these words are used in a context. Knowing these words will allow us to explain ourselves when referring to any kind of literary pieces as well as the specific words to denote a type of document, element of the narration or genre we would like to talk about. Let’s see some vocabulary:


Genre 

It is a type of literary or creative work. / Es un tipo de obra literaria o creativa.

My favorite genre is horror; I find it interesting.

Epic 

Epopeya
It is an extended narrative poem about the hero's actions. / Es un poema narrativo extenso sobre las acciones del héroe.

Example: 
The Iliad is an incredible epic poem.

Drama 

It is a piece of literature projected for performance by actors on a stage.

I think Hamlet is my favorite drama.

Fiction 
It is a fictitious work based on the imagination.

I don’t like fiction books; they are just boring.

Alliteration 

It refers to the use of the same consonant at the beginning of each word in a text.

I hate when authors use alliterations, they are difficult to read. 

Novel 
It is an extended fictional work in prose
Example: 

I don’t have a favorite novel; they all are amazing.

Essay 
It refers to amusing language used to send insults or disdain. 
Example:

Hard times by Charles D. is an amazing satire. 

Syntax

It is the study of the rules for creating acceptable sentences.
My teacher found many syntax mistakes in my last essay.

Grammar 
It is the subdivision of linguistics that deals with sentence structure. / Es la subdivisión de la lingüística que se ocupa de la estructura de las frases.

Learning grammar is difficult, but helps a lot. 

Another important part when having conversations is to be able to talk about life events. It means not to focus only on stories you read in a book or the interpretation of a work of art, but the ability to share moments of your own life, even the bad ones, therefore, we will also study vocabulary related to these types of events. Let’s see these words used in a real context. Listen, read, and try to practice with a partner:
Hey, Diana! Are you writing your essay?
Yes, but it looks like a novel.
No way! Remember it is an explanatory text, not a drama.
I know! I have to start over.

1.2 Unfortunate events
In life, not only beautiful and remarkable moments are told during a conversation. Life also has difficult moments that are worth sharing. Some of them are just to inform other people, but some others will allow others not to make those same mistakes and that conversation will be valuable for the participants. Let’s see some unfortunate events that can be part of a constructive conversation:

Be robbed / Ser robado
I have been robbed twice this week. 

Have an accident / Tener un accidente
She had never had an accident before this one.

Be rejected / Ser rechazado
Danna had been rejected many times before she entered. 

Lose money / Perder dinero
Harold has lost a lot of money due to gambling.

Be fired / Ser despedido
Wilson had never been fired.

A flood / Una inundación
My town has had 3 floods this winter.

It is important to see how this vocabulary is used in a real situation and the way it works in a context where it is necessary; in this specific case, unfortunate events. Listen, read, and try to practice with a partner:

Luis
I can’t believe I was fired! It’s so unfair! 

Naty
What happened? Did you lose money or something?

Luis
Of course not! We were robbed and they blamed on me!


Naty
That’s horrible!

Regresar Continuar

##


2 Perfect tenses

The perfect tenses refer to those actions that have been already completed. They cover different verb tenses, such as present perfect, past perfect, present perfect continuous, past perfect continuous, future perfect, and future perfect continuous. In this part, we will focus on the past perfect and the past perfect continuous.

2.1 Past perfect (Pasado perfecto)
Past perfect is a grammar tense which is used to talk about actions that occurred before another action in the past. There are different ways of using the past perfect apart from the one just mentioned. One of them is the “indirect speech”; besides, it is an important part of the third conditional because past perfect is the tense used as the condition.

In order to work with the past perfect, you need to use all the verbs in past participle. Irregular verbs are found in a list, and to turn the regular verbs into the past, you have to use the following rules:

Regular verbs / Verbos regulares

1. General rule

Add ED to the verb.

Example:

Walk  Walked

Play  Played

2. Verbs ended in E

Add, D, to the verb.

Example:

Love  Loved

Live  Lived

3. Verbs ended in, Y after a consonant

Change Y for IED in the verb

Example:

Study  Studied

Copy  Copied


4. Consonant doubling

Double the last consonant when:

It’s ended cons-vow-cons.

K, W, X are not doubled.

Only double when the last syllable is stressed.

Example:

Stop  Stopped

Control  Controlled 

Irregular verbs / Verbos irregulares

Description: Irregular verbs don’t follow any rule; they all appear in a list: the irregular verb list:

Download Let us now look at the list of more irregular verbs:

| Forma Base | Pasado Simple | Participio Pasado |
|------------|---------------|-------------------|
| be         | was, were     | been              |
| beat       | beat          | beaten            |
| become     | became        | become            |
| begin      | began         | begun             |
| bend       | bent          | bent              |
| bet        | bet           | bet               |
| bid        | bid           | bid               |
| bite       | bit           | bitten            |
| blow       | blew          | blown             |
| break      | broke         | broken            |

Let’s see how to write or say affirmative, negative, and question sentences in past perfect: / Veamos cómo escribir o decir frases afirmativas, negativas e interrogativas en pasado perfecto:

Affirmative sentences
Now that we reviewed how to put verbs into the past participle, let’s see how to write or say affirmative sentences in the past perfect:

Examples. Listen and repeat:
Maria had bought a new cellphone before her birthday.
Bruno had finished his homework before the weekend.
Luisa had called me many times, but I was asleep.

Negative sentences

In the following conversation, you will see an interaction in which the past perfect tense is used in a real-life situation, pay attention to the context and practice speaking with a classmate:

Examples. Listen and repeat:

Maria hadn’t bought a new cellphone before her birthday.
Bruno hadn’t finished his homework before the weekend.
Luisa hadn’t called me many times, but I was asleep.

Interrogative sentences

Questions in past perfect are made in a similar way in which other grammar tenses work. The sentences start with the auxiliary verb in case of a yes/no question, and with an open question they start with a WH word.

Examples. Listen and repeat:

Had Maria bought a new cellphone before her birthday?

Had Bruno finished his homework before the weekend?

Had Luisa called me many times, but I was asleep?

In the following conversation, you will see an interaction in which the past perfect tense is used in a real-life situation, pay attention to the context and practice speaking with a classmate:

Vivi
Had you talked to my mom when I arrived?

Mario
I had tried not to talk to her, but she asked me.

Vivi
Well, I understand; however, don’t do it again.

You know I had never done something like that before.

Past perfect practice
Had your father fixed (fix) the car before your trip?

Sure! He had already done (do) it!

Awesome! I had never known (know) such a good mechanic.

I had told (tell) you before, he is the best!

2.2 Past perfect continuous

The past perfect continuous is a tense that allows you to talk about events that started in the past, had a duration and finished in the past. This tense can be complemented with other past tenses in order to contrast or finish the activity. All of the sentences need to use the ING form of the verb, so let’s see how to do it:

Rules ING form

Add ING to the verb.
Example:
Call  Calling
Buy  Buying


Double the last consonant
It’s ended in cons-vow-cons.
K, W, X are not doubled.
Double only when the last syllable is stressed.
Example:
Run  Running
Control  Controlling 

Change IE for YING
Example:
Die  Dying
Tie  Tying

Change, E, for ING.
Example:
Drive  Driving
Hide  Hiding

After learning how to put the verbs in ING form, it is necessary to understand how to build affirmative, negative, and interrogative sentences, and the way the verbs are put into place:

Affirmative sentences
How to build affirmative sentences and the way the verbs are put into place: 

Examples. Listen and repeat:

David had been working on a project since 1987.
Harry had been doing homework for two hours.

Affirmative sentences

How to build affirmative sentences and the way the verbs are put into place: / Cómo se construyen las oraciones afirmativas y la forma en que se colocan los verbos:
alt
alt

Examples. Listen and repeat:
David had been working on a project since 1987.
Harry had been doing homework for two hours.

Negative sentences

Negative sentences are quite similar to the affirmative ones, the only difference is that you have to deny the auxiliary verb. All of the other components remain exactly the same way:

Examples. Listen and repeat:

David hadn’t been working on a project since 1987.

Harry hadn’t been doing homework for two hours

Affirmative sentences

How to build affirmative sentences and the way the verbs are put into place: / Cómo se construyen las oraciones afirmativas y la forma en que se colocan los verbos:
alt
alt

Examples. Listen and repeat:
David had been working on a project since 1987.
Harry had been doing homework for two hours.

Negative sentences

Negative sentences are quite similar to the affirmative ones, the only difference is that you have to deny the auxiliary verb. All of the other components remain exactly the same way: / Las oraciones negativas son bastante similares a las afirmativas, la única diferencia es que hay que negar el verbo auxiliar. Todos los demás componentes se mantienen exactamente igual:
alt
alt

Examples. Listen and repeat:
David hadn’t been working on a project since 1987.
Harry hadn’t been doing homework for two hours

Interrogative sentences

Now that we have seen the affirmative and negative forms, we will work on the structure of the interrogative sentences, which has no significant changes, we just put the auxiliary verb before the subject.

Examples. Listen and repeat:

Had David been working on a project since 1987?

Had Harry been doing homework for two hours.

All of these sentences need to be used in a situation where the context obliges you to talk about a situation that had been happening during a period of time and finished. Let’s see an example:

Camila
Hey! How have you been?

Hi! I had been working in Scotland, but I came back last week.

Camila
Had you been living with your cousin?
Well, I had been living with her and then I moved by myself.

Now, let’s practice this grammar tense by completing the following dialogue with the correct form of the verb. Remember that in past perfect continuous we use the verb in ING form. Only the verb “to be” is conjugated in past participle, as seen in the grammar charts. 

Past perfect continuous

Hi! Had you been texting me last week?

For sure! I had been sending you text messages and mails, but you never answered.

Sorry! I had been working in the countryside.

Oh, now I remember you had been telling me for weeks. Sorry, I forgot.

3 Modal verbs in the past 

Modal verbs are expressions used to talk about certain hypothetical conditions, such as advice, capability, or requests. They are used as auxiliary verbs, so, besides the modal verb, you need to use another verb which will act as your main verb. The thing with modal verbs is that you have to understand which one to use depending on what you want to communicate. In this part, the modal verbs in the past will be studied. Let’s see what each of them is used for:

Should have



It is used to talk about something that did not happen, but we wish it had happened. Main verbs are always in past participle. 

Example. Listen and repeat:

I should have drunk more water before leaving home. 

Could have

It is used to talk about something that was or was not possible in a moment in the past. Main verbs are always in past participle.

Example. Listen and repeat:

She could have finished in the morning, but the machine stopped working.

Might have

It is used to talk about an action we believe is possible that took place, but we do not know for sure. Main verbs are always in past participle.

Example. Listen and repeat:

I might have passed the exam if I had studied more. 

Must have
It is used to talk about an action we believe that definitely occurred. Main verbs are always in past participle.

He must have won his soccer match last night; he looks so happy.

Have to

We use it to talk about obligation, things that are essential to do, or to give guidance about things that are a good idea to do. 

Example. Listen and repeat:

My students have to finish their homework in class. 


1. I _______ _______ _______ (buy) bread but I didn't know we needed it.	(past possibility)

2. I _______ _______ _______ (eat) so much chocolate! I feel sick!	(past negative advice / regret)

3. I _______ _______ _______ (start) saving money years ago!	(past advice / regret)

4. I _______ _______ _______ (arrive) on time, even if I had left earlier. There were dreadful traffic jams all the way.	(past negative possibility)

5. I _______ _______ _______ (come) to see you! I didn't know you were ill.	(past willingness)

answer: 
could have bought bread
1. I could have bought bread but I didn't know we needed it.	(past possibility)
shouldn't have eaten
2. I shouldn't have eaten so much chocolate! I feel sick!	(past negative advice / regret)
should have started 
3. I should have started saving money years ago!	(past advice / regret)
couldn't have arrived
4. I couldn't have arrived on time, even if I had left earlier. There were dreadful traffic jams all the way.	(past negative possibility)
would have come
5. I would have come to see you! I didn't know you were ill.	(past willingness)

#

4 Third conditional: regret (Tercer condicional: arrepentimiento) 

The third conditional is used to talk about situations of the past that did not occur, but we fantasize about what could have happened. In order to do that, it is necessary to use two elements, as in all the conditionals: for the condition, we need the past perfect, and to show the result, we use the expression “would have” plus the verb in past participle.

4.1 Condition 
The condition is created by using the past perfect, which is a tense that helps you show events that occurred before another event in the past. It is similar to present perfect in structure; however, past perfect uses “HAD” as an auxiliary verb. There isn’t a different auxiliary verb for the third person (he, she, it), all of the pronouns use the same auxiliary verb (HAD).

Let’s see the general structure in the following chart:

We had hired a new chef when my brother gave me your CV.

Nina had seen the whole series before I started watching it.

In the examples, we have two events in the past. Only the first part of the sentence uses past perfect, because that is the event that happened first. Therefore, past perfect allows us to place an event in the past before another event in the past, without using any other type of time markers or expressions.

4.2 Result 

The result in the third conditional is expressed with “would have”, which is just an expression that helps you show something you would have liked to do. There is only one important rule: the verb after “would have” has to be written in the past participle.

Let’s see the general structure in the following chart:

For example, listen and repeat:

Laura would have come if I had told her in time.

George would have brought his car if he had put gas.

4.3 Structures

There isn’t a specific way of writing conditional sentences, and the third conditional is not an exception. Both ways, starting with the conditional word or the result, are ok, it only depends on the intention or the emphasis of the sentence.

Let’s see the general structure in the following chart:

There is another way of writing these sentences, let’s see it.
No comma

Let’s see these structures in a conversation:

Sara
Hey, Adrian! Are you ok?

Well, if I hadn’t eaten that last burger, I wouldn’t have got sick.

Sara
Oh, that’s too bad.

I know, I would have felt better today if I had thought about it.


Regresar











