Componente formativo: I was going to go on vacation, but the pandemic hit 


I was going to go on vacation, but the pandemic arrived.

This part will focus on how to tell stories from the past, and for this, you will learn not only about the structure of a story but also about the use of connectors that help us to order the story temporally when telling it; you will also learn about the expressions "was/were going to" and "was/were supposed to", which indicate from the past something that was expected to be done in the future. Finally, we will learn pronunciation concepts that will help us with our speaking ability.


Content Development
Introduction
View content
1 Expressions in the past
View content
2 Expressions to indicate future in the past
View content
3 Telling stories about the past
View content
4 Pronunciation
View content
Summary
View content 
Learning Activity

Introduction
This bilingual training level focuses on learning how to tell stories about the past and how to structure them correctly from the beginning, through the development, to the ending. For this, we must learn how to order and connect our ideas with the help of transition words, which tell us in the story what things happened before, simultaneously, afterwards, or what event concluded the story. Also, to enrich our narration, we have resources like the expressions "was/were going to" and "was/were supposed to", which tell us about things that were expected to be done or that were planned in the past, but in the end, they are not going to be done in the future. Lastly, we will learn about different pronunciation concepts that will improve our conversational skills. With this in mind, we welcome you to the study of this training component, and to start, you are invited to explore the following video:


If you want to practice, the next PDF shows the texts from the previous video, in both English and Spanish.

English does work - level 9
I was going to go on vacation, but the pandemic hit 


Hello, my name is Michelle and I want to welcome you to the third component of this course: English Does Work Level 9.
In this component, we are going to learn to tell stories from the past and how to structure them correctly in their beginning, 
their development and their ending.

For this, we must learn how to order and connect our ideas with help of transition words that tell us what happened before,
simultaneously and later in the story, or even tell us what event concluded the story. 
Also, to enrich our narration, we have some resources such as the expressions “was/were going to” and “was/were supposed to”, that tell us about things that were expected to be carried out or that were planned in the past, 
but at the end will not be held in the future.
Finally, we are going to learn some pronunciation concepts that will improve our conversational skills.
Now, thanks for listening to me and let’s start learning this new component.


1 Expressions in the past 

CONNECTORS IN ENGLISH
Initially
Suddenly
Before
Then
Previously
At the same time

There are certain types of connectors that serve as time expressions to narrate and explain things that happened in the past in an orderly manner. These connectors are words (or groups of words) that link the sentences together and establish some relationship between them; in the case of these temporal expressions, it is a sequential relationship that explains, in an orderly manner, what happened before, during, and after in a story.

We are going to see, in the next dialogue, how some time expressions are used in the past tense

Alex
Hello, Gina. How did your singing class go?
Very good, Alex. Initially, we did warm-up exercises with our vocal coach.
Alex
How interesting! And what else did you do?
As the class progressed, we sang more and more difficult songs. Suddenly, we were arranged in pairs and we sang duets.

We are going to focus on the following 3 types of temporary connectors:

Anteriority connectors
These connectors tell us that something has happened before the sentence we take as reference. They are usually used at the beginning of a story.
Example:
Once upon a time, there was a queen who ruled a country called Both Worlds.


Simultaneity connectors / Conectores de simultaneidad
These types of temporary connectors are the ones that tell us that two things are happening at the same time. They are generally used in the middle or in the development of a story.
Example:
This air conditioning unit can control humidity and temperature simultaneously

Posteriority connectors / Conectores de posterioridad
These temporary connectors are the ones that tell us that one thing happens after another. In this category, we must take into account that we can include some sequence connectors (which are usually used in the middle or in the development of a story) and some conclusion connectors (which are usually used at the end of a story).
Example:
I was listening to the radio while I drove. Suddenly, a deer appeared out of nowhere and I lost control of my car.

We can make a direct relationship of the type of connector that the expression is and when it is most appropriate to use it in a story, as follows: 

Anteriority connectors

Time connector type
Tipo de conector temporal

Anteriority connectors
Conectores de anterioridad

Expression (time transition word)
Expresión (palabra de transición de tiempo)

Once upon a time / Érase una vez 
Before / Antes
Initially / Inicialmente 
Previously / Previamente
At the beginning / Al principio
____ ago (a while ago, X years ago, etc.) / Hace ____ (hace un tiempo, hace X años, etc.)

When to use it in a story
Cuándo usarla en una historia 

Beginning

Simultaneity connectors/ Conectores de simultaneidad

Time connector type
Tipo de conector temporal
Simultaneity connectors

Expression (time transition word)
Expresión (palabra de transición de tiempo)

While / Mientras que 
When / Cuando 
Simultaneously / Simultáneamente 
At the same time / Al mismo tiempo 
In that moment / En ese momento 
As / Mientras / cuando / a medida que 

When to use it in a story

Middle

Posteriority connectors/ Conectores de posterioridad
Time connector type
Posteriority connectors

Expression (time transition word)
Then / Entonces / luego 
Suddenly / De repente 
Later / Luego 
Afterwards / Después 
Finally / Finalmente 

At the end / Al final 
To the end of / Hasta el final de 
Ending

Now it’s your turn to use the time transition expressions in the past. Complete the following dialogue.

It sounds very interesting. How did it end?
At the end , our coach gave us feedback on our performance. I really enjoyed this class.



##

2
Expressions to indicate future in the past 

Future in the past is used to express the idea that in the past you thought something would happen in the future. It doesn’t matter if you are correct or not.
We often use was/were going to or was/were supposed to to apologize for not doing something. We usually give a reason.

The expressions that we are going to use to indicate the future in the past tense are "was/were going to" and "was/were supposed to". Let's see some examples:

was/were going to


The expression, was, were going to, is used to talk about stated intentions or plans that were made and were not carried out (in the past) or will not be carried out (in the future).

For example:

Sofía was going to spend this weekend in Cartagena, but there were no hotel rooms available.

Was / Were Going to

past of, to be,	going to + infinitive	meaning

was,  were	going to + infinitive	To talk about plans we made in the past which didn´t happen or won’t happen in the future.

We were going to visit the Sussex family later that year, but we didn’t go for… (some reason)	They planned to visit the Sussex family, but they didn’t visit them.

We were going to spend our anniversary in the cottage in Wales, where we had our honeymoon, but it was already booked.	They planned to spend their anniversary in the cottage in Wales, but now they aren’t going to go there.

was, were supposed to

The expression, was, were supposed to, is used to talk about things that were agreed to be done, or that people expect to be done, but in the end they were not done (in the past) nor will they be done (in the future).

You were supposed to call mom in an hour, but you left your phone at home.

Was,  Were Supposed to

past of, to be,	supposed to + infinitive	meaning

was, were	supposed to + infinitive	To talk about things we agreed to do or other people expected us to do, but we didn’t do.

Gloria was supposed to book the cottage months ago, but she forgot.	Gloria agreed to book the cottage, but she didn’t book it.

I was supposed to call you back, wasn’t I? Sorry, Michelle, I was out all day.	Michelle expected his friend to call her back, but she didn’t.

In sentences with the expressions, was/were going to”and, was, were supposed to”, the main verb is always written in base form. Then you can also add sentences (sometimes in the form of an apology) that explain the reasons why what was planned or agreed was not carried out.

Let’s see in the context of a conversation how these types of expressions can be used: 

Martha
Weren’t you supposed to travel abroad these days?

Yes, I was supposed to catch the flight to Boston by the end of this month.

Martha
You told me something like that the last time we spoke, but what exactly happened?

The thing is that I was going to study English this upcoming semester in the U.S., but my student visa was delayed.

When we speak with the expressions “was/were going to” or “was/were supposed to”, it implies that someone expects some action to be carried out in the past or in the future.To differentiate between these two tenses, time markers can be used to indicate whether it is something that was planned or expected to be done in the past or in the future.

For example, it is not the same: 

We were supposed to go to the beach yesterday, but it rained. (past)

We were supposed to go to the beach tomorrow, but the weather forecast says that it is going to rain. (future)

Now let’s see the sentence structures with “was/were going to” or “was/were supposed to”.

Affirmative sentences was/were going to

Affirmative 

He was going to visit his girlfriend tomorrow night.

We were going to spend time with our grandma abroad next summer.

Negative sentences was/were going to 

Negative 

He was not going to visit his girlfriend tomorrow night.

We were not going to spend time with our grandma abroad next summer.

Yes, or No, questions was, were going to 

Was he going to visit his girlfriend tomorrow night?

Were we going to spend time with our grandma abroad next summer?

Information questions was, were going to 

Information questions was,were going to

Who was he going to visit tomorrow night?

When were we going to spend time with our grandma abroad?

Affirmative sentences was, were supposed to 

They were supposed to travel to Europe by the end of this year.

Negative sentences was, were supposed to 

I was not supposed to work next monday.

They were not supposed to travel to Europe by the end of this year.

Yes or No questions was, were supposed to 

Was I supposed to work next monday?

Were they supposed to travel to Europe by the end of this year?

Information questions was/were supposed to 

When was I supposed to work? 

Where were they supposed to travel by the end of this year?

Let’s practice a little the structure of sentences with expressions to indicate the future in the past tense. Complete the following dialogue.

What a bummer! Wasn’t they supposed to give you the visa less than 2 months after it was approved?

That was what they were supposed to do, that was what they agreed to.

Drag and drop the words into the conversation.

##
3 Telling stories about the past

Narrative structure in a story refers to how a story is ordered and shaped. When telling a story, two of the most important variables are:

Who's telling the story? Or from what perspective is he doing it?

In other words, is the narrator (ourselves) the main character to whom the events happen? Or is he telling someone else's story?


How to order the events in a story?
The events in a story can be ordered in a logical and chronological way (linear narration); in a non-chronological way, starting in the middle and constantly jumping in time between various moments in the past and present (non-linear narration); or you can start at the end of the story and go back to the origins of the narrative (circular narrative - this style is used mostly in fiction).

Here, initially, we are going to learn the most traditional way of telling a story, which is through a linear narrative.

Julia
Tell me what happened to your car the other night.

That was a very strange event. A couple of nights ago, I went to a movie with my roommate and a few other people from our dorm.

Julia
And what happened?

After watching the movie, we left the theater and imagine our surprise when we got to the car to find the windshield covered with slices of cheese.

Although there is no exact equation that tells us how to tell a story, there is usually a useful order to do things. This structure is sometimes known as Story Mountain.

1 Introduction
2 Inciting incident
3 Problem
4 The stakes
5 Rising action
6 Climax
7 Falling action
8 Resolution

After identifying the structure with the “story mountain” to tell stories, we invite you to watch some videos where it is related: the Introduction, Climax and Denouement.

3.1 Introduction (Inicio)
The introduction is where the author introduces the setting and characters of their story, with all their goals and motivations. The narrative usually begins in balance, but an action or character breaks the balance (an inciting incident), and early we are presented with both the problem (which is what the story is mostly going to be about) and the stakes for the main character (what he can win or lose). Let’s see an example.

https://youtu.be/7vhSgoPEqx0

3.2 Climax (Desarrollo)

To enter the development of the story, there is the rising of the action, which can be the unfolding of certain events that help us understand the problem, and a search to restore the balance lost with the previous incidents begins. Then, the narration continues until the climax, which is the most exciting part of the story and it is usually a great event that serves as a turning point for the events. Let’s see an example.

https://youtu.be/rOhgTT_LqVA

3.3 Denouement (Conclusión)
To enter the denouement of the story, we have the falling action, which are events that occur after the climax that lead to the resolution of the problem, and the balance is restored. Let’s see an example.

https://youtu.be/5vWQAqKTJsg


4 Pronunciation 
There are several concepts of the pronunciation of the English language (such as vowel reduction, contractions, vowel combinations and intonation rules) that we must learn and practice to improve our conversational skills since in a language it isn’t only important what we say, but how we say it. Let’s see them in this thematic unit.

If the sound of the word isn’t pronounced correctly, it could cause confusion and misunderstanding since the receiver would understand incorrectly. Many misunderstandings are due to mispronunciation or poor intonation. Knowing that we pronounce correctly gives us power. When we know that we have a good pronunciation we want to talk and interact more since we feel comfortable talking because we know that we pronounce well. 

The following dialogue will allow us to enter the theme.

Carla
Hi, Elena! Can you tell me what happened at the last meeting?

I have to say I couldn’t’ve succeeded there if Jenny hadn’t helped me.

Carla
D’y’all present the project?
No, my team didn’t show up, they shouldn’t’ve eaten those shrimps, they got sick!

Let’s see the following pronunciation concepts that will greatly improve our conversational skills.


4.1 Unstressed vowels and vowel reduction

When we speak, the words we say seem different from the words we write, and one of the reasons is that we reduce or make smaller certain vowel sounds of words that we think are less important in the sentence (functional words) to make room to those that we think are more important for the other person to hear (content words), and when we reduce or shrink these vowel sounds,, they take on the same sound. So it is the vowels A - E - I - O - U, they can all have the same sound and that sound is called schwa (and it sounds like uh).

Can   kuhn 
Sandra can speak French.
To   tuh 
Let’s go to Spain!
Or   er 
Would you like soup or salad?


Are  er 
The apples are ripe.
Her  er 
That’s her brother.

The following videos expand the information. What happens when we reduce the voices?

Ecosistema de Recursos Educativos Digitales SENA 84.3 k suscriptores
Unstressed vowels and vowel reduction sesion 1
https://youtu.be/tPbCpBdX1iM

Next, you are invited to see some examples of unstressed vowels and vowel reduction. 


Unstressed vowels and vowel reduction sesion 2
https://youtu.be/lsrF6DExuAg


4.2 Contractions
Contractions
Isn't
He's
They're
Can't
I'll've

You must understand that a contraction in English is the combination of two words in a shortened form, with the omission of some letters and the use of an apostrophe. Next, we will listen to the pronunciation in two columns, one is the contraction and the other is the full form. Listen carefully and repeat. We can see some examples:


N°	Contraction	Full Form
1	aren’t	are not, am not
2	can’t	can not
3	‘cause	because
4	could’ve	could have
5	couldn’t	could not


N°	Contraction	Full Form
6	didn’t	did not
7	doesn’t	does not
8	don’t	do not
9	hadn’t	had not
10	hasn’t	has not
N°	Contraction	Full Form
11	haven’t	have not
12	he’d	he had / he would
13	he’ll	he shall / he will
14	he’s	he has / he is


N°	Contraction	Full Form
11	haven’t	have not
12	he’d	he had / he would
13	he’ll	he shall / he will
14	he’s	he has / he is
15	how’s	how has / how is / how does

N°	Contraction	Full Form
16	I’d	I had / I would
17	I’ll	I shall / I will
18	I’m	I am
19	I’ve	I have
20	isn’t	is not



Taken from  Tomado de
 https://www.inglestotal.com/pronunciacion-de-contracciones-en-ingles-english-contractions/

As structures and sentences are studied in different verb tenses, we can see various contractions that are formed between some grammatical words.

But in this case, we are going to learn how to pronounce double contractions. 


Phrase 
I will have
Contraction 
I’ll’ve


Phrase 
Could not have
Contraction 
Couldn’t’ve 

Phrase 
Can not have
Contraction
Can’t’ve


Phrase 
Do you all
Contraction 
D’y’all

Phrase 
He would have
Contraction 
He’d’ve


Phrase
He is not
Contraction
He’sn’t

Phrase
I have not
Contraction 
I’ven’t

Phrase
Might not have
Contraction
Mightn’t’ve


Phrase 
Must not have
Contraction 
Mustn’t’ve


Phrase
Should not have
Contraction 
Shouldn’t’ve

Phrase
Who would have
Contraction
Who’d’ve

Phrase
Will not have
Contraction
Won’t’ve


Be careful as these are never spelled the way they are pronounced.

For example, the double contraction “couldn’t’ve” is written

Could not have (formally)

Couldn’t have (informally)

4.3 Mixed sounds 


Mixed sounds, vowel combinations, vowel digraphs, vowel mixtures, are some of the names we can give to this theme. And they can be a combination of two vowels, as in ‘oo’, ‘ie’ or ‘au’, or a combination of a vowel plus a consonant, where the consonant has no distinctive sound, as in, aw, wa or oh.

We are going to practice some of the most common combinations, since in total there are at least 28 written vowel letter combinations. / Vamos a practicar algunas de las combinaciones más comunes, ya que en total hay al menos 28 combinaciones de letras vocales escritas.

OO Vowel combination words

Look
Book
Food
Cook
Good
Understood

OO Vowel combination words 
Bamboo
Kangaroo
Goose
Igloo
Cool
Balloon

OW Vowel combination words 
Cow
Owl
Allow 

How
Town
Now

OW Vowel combination words 
Know
Window
Throw
Slow
Own
Arrow

OU Vowel combination words
Soup
Amount
You
Cloud
Coup
Proud

OU Vowel combination words 
Would
Should
Could
Shoulder
Soul
Poultry


IE Vowel combination words
Brief
Chief
Grieve
Die
Pie
Lie

4.4 Rhythm in the phrase and intonation (Ritmo en la frase y entonación)

Intonation describes how the voice rises and falls rhythmically in speech, and unlike Spanish, which is pronounced based on syllables and has graphic accents (tildes), English is pronounced based on stress but doesn’t have graphic accents, for what correctly intoning the total of the sentence is essential for in order for the oral message to be understood correctly.

The three intonation patterns in English are: falling intonation, rising intonation, and falling-rising intonation.

Falling intonation / Entonación descendente

The voice falls on the last stressed syllable of a sentence. It is common in questions with -wh words and in affirmative statements or statements when something definite is said.

Where are you?

He thinks we are good. 

Rising intonation / Entonación ascendente

The voice is raised at the end of a sentence. It is common in yes or no questions.
Am I crazy?

Fall-rise intonation / Entonación descendente-ascendente 

The voice falls and returns and rises on the last stressed syllable of a sentence. It is common in statements or affirmations when we do not completely agree.
Are they your siblings?

With the knowledge we now have about these pronunciation concepts, let's practice our listening skills a bit. Complete the following dialogue using intonation patterns.

Use of rhythm in the phrase and intonation

I’ven’t felt bad or anything like that 

That’s good! Do you know Greg?.

 He’sn’t here because he was sent to the hospital.

Regresar










































































































































